Cape Town – De Doorns has become the site of another deadly accident on the N1. On Saturday morning a bakkie and oncoming truck collided, killing five people and leaving one of the bakkie’s occupants fighting for his life in hospital. Less than a month ago, a taxi rolled along the same stretch of road, killing a passenger and injuring several others. Recently, four people died and many others were seriously injured on the N1 between Beaufort West and Three Sisters. ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said paramedics arrived at the scene shortly after 10am on Saturday, responding to an emergency call about a collision between a bakkie and a truck along the N1 in De Doorns near the Orchid turn off. Vermaak said: “Five people were declared dead by Metro Ambulance paramedics, while one person from the bakkie was treated for serious sustained injuries and was transported to hospital for further care. “The driver of the truck was treated on the scene by ER24 paramedics and transported to Mediclinic Worcester. “The exact circumstances of the collision are not yet known. Local authorities attended the scene and will conduct an investigation.” Transport MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela said he was deeply concerned about the rising number of fatalities in the province due to car accidents. “Road safety remains one of my strategic focus areas I have committed for prioritisation to implement during my time in office. I’m concerned about the number of crashes that are happening on our roads.” “This is a huge setback to the province after it recorded a low rate of road fatalities during the 2019 festive season and during the pandemic. “My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families during this difficult time. I wish the injured a speedy recovery,” he said. Police Spokesperson FC van Wyk said De Doorns police were investigating a case of culpable homicide after Saturday’s accident. “According to reports received, an LDV was travelling along the N1 road in De Doorns from Laingsburg direction to Worcester, when the driver lost control and the LDV veered off to the oncoming traffic. “The vehicle crashed head-on with a truck that was travelling from Worcester direction to Touws River. Five people were declared dead on the scene.” Cape Argus