by Bronagh Hammond In response to the letter “Heathfield High School also in desperate need of attention” (24/11/2020), the ministry has no record of an invitation being received to meet with the SGB at any point. In true style the, the SGB prefers to engage with us via open letters to the media rather than to address us directly themselves. The SGB is also well aware that the matter they are referring to is currently subject to labour proceedings. The decision to re-open public schools was made by the national government and based on solid expert medical advice, and this was confirmed by the High Court in Gauteng. The WCED was informed by various interested parties, including parents, that Grade 12 learners at Heathfield had not attended school for some time. Various officials engaged with Mr Neumann in an attempt to persuade him to reopen the school. The head of department wrote to Mr Neumann saying that he trusted that Mr Neumann would ensure that the Grade 12 learners entrusted to his care “receive the education that is their constitutional right so that their preparation and future is not jeopardized any further”. He instructed him to inform learners and parents accordingly. Mr Neumann was also advised of the directives by the Department of Basic Education, which urged provincial government to implement disciplinary procedures where educators refused to report for duty. Mr Neumann failed to comply with the deadline to inform parents as such. Instead he responded by addressing a hostile and defamatory letter to the HOD, which he elected to copy to “All media houses”. After additional correspondence the department informed Mr Neumann of the charges against him, including that of failing to carry out a lawful instruction of the employer and committing misconduct by allegedly encouraging personnel to not report for duty. The WCED will follow due process so as to enable a presiding officer to decide on the merits of the matter, based on the facts and the law in this regard. * Bronagh Hammond, director of communication, Western Cape Education Department. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).