Cape Town - As part of the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children Campaign, men will be afforded a platform to confront their demons at a series of facilitated dialogues on gender-based violence and femicide (GBVF), which will be hosted in taverns around Cape Town. The Tavern Dialogues, which were launched in Nyanga on Wednesday, will be held at 10 taverns in areas with the highest incidence of GBVF, including in Gugulethu, Delft and Mitchells Plain, and will be facilitated by experts. They are designed to educate and equip men to drive positive change in their communities. Convenor of the Liquor Traders of SA,  Lucky Ntimane said taverns were social and economic hubs of township communities, and had an important role to play in upholding community values and promoting responsible drinking. “This includes taking the lead in eliminating gender-based violence and femicide. Our taverns must be safe spaces for positive social interaction and this is why we wanted to take this initiative. With the litany of reports of women and children being hurt and killed by men, it is time for men to take a stand and lead in the fight against GBV and femicide,” he said. Distell regional manager Sholto Sims said gender-based violence and femicide perpetuated trauma across generations, resulting in broken homes, shattered lives and the destruction of human potential. “GBVF is a multifaceted issue that can be traced back to prevailing attitudes towards women, gender inequality and feelings of hopelessness and loss of power, among others. For men who have a predisposition for violence, often having been abused themselves, problem drinking can be an aggravating factor,” he said Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz said men were the main perpetrators of violence against women, children and other vulnerable groups and that there was a need for them to engage with each other to realise that such conduct was unacceptable. “The Department of Community Safety is driving this change as it has tasked an official within the court watching brief unit to monitor GBVF-related cases and ensure that where cases are struck off the court roll due to policing inefficiencies, they are reinstated and that disciplinary action is taken,” Fritz said. Cape Argus