Cape Town - A raw and gripping art exhibition portraying violence provided a glimpse into the harsh realities of women on the Cape Flats, with pieces created by them. The Cape Flats Women Alumni exhibition took place in the Imam Haron Hall at Community House in Salt River on Monday, and was made possible by the Manenberg Safety Forum with other supporting role-players. The exhibition formed part of a move towards collective healing and to celebrating and honouring women who formed the backbone of their communities. The programme proceeded with the 20 nominees entering and beginning with spoken word poetry. Many were overwhelmed by emotions as they reminisced about the pain caused by the loss of a child or loved one, gang violence and other social ills. The women are from Hanover Park, Manenberg, Heideveld, Delft, Eerste River, Mitchells Plain, Mfuleni, Philippi and Khayelitsha. The artworks were created from everyday materials such as children’s clothing, household items, police tape, rope and pictures of young children killed, with accompanying articles. Comedian and community activist Soli Philander MC’d the event and said: “The point of this gathering is the celebration of these women, and the idea that they are in these environments and that they are not overwhelmed by it. They face these circumstances and they do not flinch, they stand and confront it, and persevere.” Global Initiative against Transnational Organised Crime analyst Rukshana Parker said the women would be taking part this week in Healing Circles funded by that organisation. “A lot of work we do goes towards assisting, funding and mobilising community initiatives fighting against organised crime, working to deal with gangsterism and with communities rife with drug abuse,” she said. Roegchanda Pascoe, Manenberg community activist and chairperson of the Manenberg Safety Forum, said the event aimed to shift the narrative around women of colour on the Cape Flats. She said news coverage was always about the violence on the Cape Flats. “They never write about these extraordinary women who stand out in their communities and take the fire, take the bullets and take the abuse in the absence of the government playing its role.” Cape Argus