Cape Town - Eighteen families across the province are looking forward to their children finally receiving reconstructive surgeries, as Tygerberg Hospital in partnership with the Smile Foundation and donor the Big Shoe have begun chipping away at the hospital’s surgery backlog. Approximately 110 children at Tygerberg Hospital have had their surgeries cancelled due to the lockdown because of the Coronavirus pandemic. Smile Foundation will, during the course of the week, host their annual Smile Week during which they will conduct a series of reconstructive surgeries on children from all areas across the province. Specialist plastic surgeon Dr Alexander Zühlke said the hospital decided to clear the backlog before it began to have major ramifications on children awaiting surgery. “The Covid-19 pandemic has had an impact on all facets of life, but particularly on the health system. It has resulted in a large number of patients desperately waiting for their procedures to be done. We are extremely excited about this opportunity offered by the Smile Foundation in partnership with Big Shoe, which will greatly help decrease our backlog of children requiring facial reconstructive procedures,” Zühlke said. One of the children receiving an operation is 9-year-old Stacey-Lee Visagie from De Doorns, who was born without her left ear. Visagie’s mother, Eloise Jaftha said she was grateful that her daughter finally had the surgery after many years of cancellations and disappointments. “We are so happy and grateful for the surgery. It is something we have wanted for Stacey for so long. Stacey is very shy, and tends to only play for short periods or not want to play at all, as she is often teased by her peers about her condition.” Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said she was grateful for the work being done by Smile Foundation, bringing happiness back into the lives of young children born with facial deformities. “I’m excited to be part of this initiative that brings smiles to babies born with facial anomalies. My deepest gratitude goes to everyone who made this possible," she said. Cape Argus