Cape Town - Cederberg mayor Sylvia Qunta (ANC) said the municipality is currently standing by municipal manager Henry Slimmert, who was on Wednesday arrested by the police Commercial Crime Investigation Unit. In a brief statement, municipal spokesperson Anthony Mlata said: “The mayor has noted the arrest and the municipality firmly supports the Constitutional principle that all people are equal before the law, and innocent until proven guilty. “Cederberg Municipality hereby affirms we are committed to co-operate with all investigation agencies of our country. We fully support the legal processes and will ensure the law takes it course.” Mlata was reacting to reports that Slimmert had been arrested and charged with “defeating the ends of justice”. Slimmert has since been released on bail of R50 000. Police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said: “A 59-year-old man was arrested on November 25. He appeared in the Clanwilliam Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, November 26, on charges of obstructing and defeating the ends of justice, as well as the contravention of the Special Investigative Unit (SIU) Act. He was subsequently granted bail and the matter remanded to February 25 for further investigation.” In September, members of the SIU conducted a search-and-seizure operation relating to irregular procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) at the municipal offices, during which attempts were made to prevent the SIU from doing its work. After the raid, the municipality had hauled the SIU to the Western Cape High Court for attaching laptops and private cellphones of staff members, allegedly without a proclamation or warrant, but after the items were returned, Slimmert withdrew the application. On Friday, Mayor Qunta said: “On the September 10 the SIU raided the municipality without a search warrant. The SIU, however, left the municipality on that particular day with laptops and cell phones. The Cederberg Municipality took the SIU to court because of the SIU not following processes and the matter was settled in a court of law, between the two parties.” “It is important to note that the municipality gave permission to the SIU to interview staff members even without a search warrant. The Cederberg Municipality provided access to our buildings to the SIU at all times when they requested access. “The Municipal Manager co-operated very well with the SIU since their first visit, at the same time providing leadership to the municipality,” said Qunta. Cape Argus