Cape Town - Environmentalists are engaging with small-scale fishers to educate them on how to exercise their rights correctly when their land is being used for energy and gas projects. Green Connection, which works with coastal communities to protect them from oil and gas drilling, aims to raise awareness of the negative implications of offshore gas and oil exploration for small-scale fishers living in 136 coastal communities across South Africa. The organisation particularly focuses on small-scale fishers on the Western Cape coast, which is the longest coastline of all four coastal provinces. Spokesperson Liziwe McDaid said: “We believe that without a proper energy plan, one that allows for input from all South Africans, we risk investing in things such as further oil and gas exploration and drilling. This could only serve narrow vested interests rather than the greater public good.” She said citizens who have been relying on the ocean for generations do not seem to be fully recognised when assessing the feasibility of the government’s current proposed energy projects. Green Connection also calls on Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe to publish the country’s much-anticipated Integrated Energy Plan (IEP) for public comment. McDaid said: “The rationale for South Africa’s energy choices should be assessed and evaluated using the best available evidence. “An IEP that involves meaningful public consultation and robust debates will improve the country’s response to climate change and move us towards the just energy transition that is needed to address the country’s deteriorating energy situation.” Green Connection geologist Jan Arkert said: “Nearly 3  000 accidents were recorded between the years 2000 to 2007 of gas blow-outs and associated oil spills in the European Union (EU). Of this, 60% occurred on semi-submersible oil and gas installations such as the vessel being used off the Cape south coast. These events are associated with significant indirect social cost and direct economic losses to the fisheries industry.” McDaid said: “For those dependent on the ocean, these projects could only disadvantage already historically abused communities even further by taking away their ability to make a living for themselves. “Small-scale fishers must be allowed to have a say in what happens in their oceans. “Therefore we have been engaging with local coastal communities to help them understand their rights in the environmental impact assessment processes relating to drilling applications.” Cape Argus