Cape town - In an effort to end gender-based violence, the 1 000 Women Trust launched a national movement campaign urging parents to “do the brave thing” by making a pledge – to make time to speak to their sons and teach them about consent, boundaries and respect for women. According to the organisation, the campaign centres on a children’s doll – Krissy Doll – who appears to have been brutally assaulted, exhibiting all the hallmarks of domestic violence. Co-founder and trustee of 1 000 Women Tina Thiart said close to 100 women and children had been murdered over the last few months in South Africa, adding that this was set to rise with the lifting of alcohol restrictions last week. Thiart said girls had higher chances of being raped than of learning to read, and that all women of all ages were targets for rape, abuse and murder – and something needed to be done. “Our Krissy Doll is a strong denotation of how women cover up or hide the abuse or violence that is inflicted on them. By showing a potential future in which little girls accept battered and bruised dolls as if this were the norm, we are hoping to shock South Africans into having critical conversations with their sons”. “All we are asking is for South Africans to make time to speak to their sons. Words are powerful and children’s behaviour and attitudes are learnt, shaped and moulded by those who care for them. “If every South African took just half an hour a month to talk to their sons, or boys in their care, about the right way to think and act, consent, boundaries and respect for women, we would soon see less violence, abuse, rape and murder,” said Thiart. 1 000 Women 1 Voice volunteer Uenice Stoltz said some believed talking about relationships, consent or women should start when children were teenagers but, in fact, these are topics that should be discussed from a young age already. “At a young age, the term ‘consent’ may sound complex, but ‘no’ or ‘yes’ do not, and should be explained to boys to protect them and those they interact with,” she said. Thiart said they hoped that everyone would take up the responsibility to have these types of conversations with their children from an early age. Cape Argus