Cape Town - Spinach farmer Ncumisa Mkabile,  27, has been nominated for a Ugandan Starqt Against All Odds entrepreneurship award. Mkabile, from Khayelitsha, was recognised by the organisation for her entrepreneurship drive and social responsibility initiatives. She runs two successful farming initiatives that she began weeks before the coronavirus pandemic hit South Africa. “When I was told about the nomination I was so shocked, but excited too. This is a great opportunity for me and I’m very grateful for the recognition and opportunity. I have been able to accomplish so much throughout this year regardless of the raging pandemic. This truly is icing on the cake of my hard work.” The entrepreneurship celebratory awards will be hosted in South Africa on November 28. Mkabile, who is nominated under the business sector, is competing against a number of well-established Ugandan and South African entrepreneurs. “To be included in something that big is as extremely gratifying as it is overwhelming. It’s a reminder of everything I’ve worked hard to accomplish this year as well as a sign to continue growing as a brand and businesswoman.” Along with the award nomination, Mkabile has also bagged a number of exciting and favourable partnerships. She recently won a Sunlight business competition worth R200 000, a course in agriculture and a brand marketing campaign. “My face and story is all over social media, thanks to Sunlight. They have been an amazing partner in growing my brand. Through them I have been able to market with celebrities and reach people from all across the country and even Africa.” Mkabile was also gifted with a parcel of land in Gordon’s Bay by Group 500 Investments, an organisation that supports women empowerment and upliftment. Mkabile also supplies two local Spar stores and street vendors with her fresh spinach. “From here I only see more growth and blessings. Before the end of the year I plan to launch an agricultural business hub where I will teach and share everything that I've learnt so far with local aspiring farmers and entrepreneurs. This will be another opportunity for me to give back to a community that has supported and worked with me since my very first business venture,” said Mkabile. * To vote for Ncumisa Mkabile: http://starqt.com/awards-businessnominees/ Cape Argus