Cape Town - Historical  maritime items that may be linked to a shipwreck have been discovered by divers in Walker Bay in Hermanus and will be promoted as a heritage site for tourists. Neptune’s Divers and Cruises discovered the site three years ago, and the items found included anchors, chains and other unidentified maritime items. South African Heritage Resources Agency (SAHRA) inspected and carried out tests on the site, which measured 200m² x 20m deep in Walker Bay. Neptune’s Divers and Cruises Owner Marx Möhr said: “Only Neptune’s Divers and Cruises currently has a permit to work on the site. As we are still uncertain exactly what remains unfound, the truth and history of Neptune’s X (the site) will take some time. Our initial permit runs until the end of next year, and we hope to discover enough by then and prolong our research.” SAHRA approved Neptune’s application for a permit to perform a survey of the unknown wreck in Hermanus. Möhr said they hope this new heritage diving site, named Neptune X, will lead to interesting historic finds and contribute to Hermanus as an interesting tourist destination. “The remains lie at 20m, on a predominantly sandy reef, and it offers an exciting dive to qualified divers. The worldwide mysteries surrounding shipwrecks are legion and what still lies hidden at Neptune X is no exception,” he said. He said it was, unfortunately, not a site for all divers. The site ranges between depths of 18m to 22m, with visibility and all-round conditions varying from day to day. “Certified divers will have to be guided on the site to prevent them from getting lost or overwhelmed by changing conditions. It is, however, perfectly safe as long as all safety procedures are followed,” he said. According to the records of SAHRA, there are about 200 shipwrecks identified along the Overberg coastline, dating from the middle to late 1600s. One of the divers, Makayla Möhr, has been researching some of the finds and says it may be too early to positively identify these heritage items as being from a shipwreck. There are, however, indications that the anchors may date from the early to late 1800s. Cape Whale Coast Tourism manager and representative on the government’s Oceans Economic Working Group, Frieda Lloyd, said: “Developing responsible coastal and marine tourism is a key element of Operation Phakisa and the discovery and potential of Neptune X could be significant.” She said authenticity was a crucial element for the growth of sustainable tourism. Neptune X offers the possibility of a heritage diving site and an important contributor to coastal and marine tourism, in the Overberg region and beyond. Cape Argus