Cape Town - The national Department of Social Development is looking into allegations that social housing company Communicare wants to evict tenants from its Welverdiend residence in Rondebosch “to build luxury apartments.” The company said while the building would eventually be demolished, no evictions would take place. Responding to a request from community activist Colin Arendse on behalf of the Communicare tenant beneficiaries, advocate Ebenezer Iheanyi from the office of the deputy minister of social development said: “We will bring it to the attention of the powers that be.” Arendse had written to Social Development Deputy Minister Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu on Tuesday to remind her of her promise to tenants, at a public meeting in October last year, to investigate Communicare. “On the Welverdiend issue, we fail to understand why Communicare wants to evict tenant beneficiaries, some as old as 90 years, during Covid-19,” Arendse wrote Communicare spokesperson Megan Lennart said: “No tenant has been evicted relating to the building’s future demolition. We are absolutely not evicting any tenants at Welverdiend. Due to the lockdown we have also indefinitely delayed issuing notice to vacate to any Welverdiend tenants. ”Half of the tenants had taken up the opportunity to relocate to Communicare’s other premises, she said. "These relocations are progressing well and have continued to take place, since October 2019,” said Lennart. She reiterated a previous communication from Communicare and said: “The welfare of older and vulnerable tenants is our first priority when considering relocation. This does become necessary from time to time if a building administered by Communicare reaches a state where repairs are no longer feasible. "That is what is happening at Welverdiend in Rondebosch. We fully understand the stress that may be caused to older people, some of whom have lived at Communicare premises for most of their adult life, and old age. "The company would pay for relocation and ensure there were no additional costs for vulnerable tenants,” Lennart said. “Despite significant investment in repairs over the years by Communicare, the structural problems and ageing infrastructure can no longer be repaired,” said Lennart. Confronted with this statement, Arendse said: “They are missing the point completely. In any case, we doubt that they are the owners of any of the buildings and I have been in touch with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) looking for confirmation that they are indeed the owners of the building. “We want the government to do a complete audit of the buildings in Communicare’s portfolio to see who actually owns them.” Cape Argus