by Nombulelo Shange History has been made globally and here at home. In the US, Kamala Harris became the first black woman to become vice-president, while locally we celebrate the appointment of Prof Puleng Lenka Bula’s appointment as the first black female vice-chancellor of the largest university in Africa, Unisa. When both announcements were made, I was personally filled with hope and joy that transformation is possible and we are all living witnesses to it. But while celebrating these women in the media, in our communities, within academia and social media, we have done a disservice to them. Maybe without intending to we have tokenised them, focusing more on the fact that they are black women, instead of on their remarkable career achievements and victories that have built them up to the powerful roles they hold today. Listen, I am not saying we must not celebrate when black women make it into leadership positions. They have to be celebrated because representation is so important for young black girls who are often told by the world that they are not important or will never amount to anything great. We have to celebrate them as black women because they often have to work 10 times harder to get half the recognition. And this is the point that I am making. These women and many others before them who were/are “firsts” in their fields have worked much harder than male or white predecessors. They have had to work harder while also fighting the patriarchal whiteness woven into our systems and workplaces. So when black women are successful in battling these aggressions while making remarkable strides in their careers we have a responsibility to celebrate their accomplishments and list their endless achievements in the same way we do for men. This is also important because often when women and people of colour occupy positions of power, there is often the assumption that they are purely “transformation” or “BBBEE” hires and are/were not the most suitable candidate for the position. So I want to take this opportunity to move beyond celebrating Prof Puleng, the black woman; I want to celebrate her work and scholarly contribution. In her role as deputy vice-chancellor responsible for institutional change, student affairs, and engaged scholarship at the University of the Free State, she has demonstrated the kind of leadership that encourages critical dialogue. She also disrupts predetermined academic categorisations that confine scholars to their respective disciplines. She realises life does not exist in the predetermined vacuum that academia creates. Life has complex intersecting systems that influence each other and people. This is how society should be researched and analysed, with the intersecting complexities in mind. This is reflected in many of her contributions. One example is, Beyond Anthropocentricity – Botho/Ubuntu and the Quest for Economic and Ecological Justice in Africa. This paper cuts across multiple disciplines, including ecological justice, the economy and the African humanist philosophy of botho. Globally she has also made her mark. She has worked as a visiting professor at the University of Toronto and Emmanuel College. She has also acted as a consultant for global movements such as the World Communion of Reformed Churches, the World Council of Churches and the Council for World Mission, which are at the forefront of progressive thinking about ecological, economic and gender issues. This piece could easily turn into a thesis if I had to list and discuss all of Prof Puleng’s accomplishments. So, as we celebrate Prof Puleng the black woman, let us also remember to celebrate her journey, battles, victories and even losses. Let us also do this for other black women who will break the glass ceiling to transform places which will also want to be celebrated for finally allowing black women in, when the truth is that black women fought to get in and their institutional efforts are long overdue. * Shange is a lecturer in the department of sociology, University of the Free State. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.