Cape Town – A petrol bomb allegedly thrown at informal structures behind a block of flats is believed to have caused a fire that left nine families displaced in Lavender Hill in the early hours of yesterday. City Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said at 2.24am an emergency call was received that informal structures were on fire at Wicht Court, Lavender Hill. Carelse said Lakeside, Ottery, Constantia and Fish Hoek fire crews were dispatched to the scene. “Several informal structures – the initial tally is eight – and two vehicles were destroyed in this fire. The flat on the first floor sustained damages when the heat of the fire cracked a window and the flames made their way into the flat. A flat on the second floor also sustained some damage. “A number of persons were displaced and no injuries were reported. The fire was extinguished at 4.09am,” he said. Crystal Paulse said the fire started at a backyard bungalow, and then spread through nine other structures, including flats on the ground floor and first floor. “At around 2am I was called by a resident, who was shouting for water as something was burning. Luckily, I was still up watching a movie, and managed to grab my daughter and my 5-month-old son. We tried to extinguish the fire; however the smoke was too much. All our belongings were burnt in the fire, including my 5-month-old son’s medication and a heart pump – he has a hole in his heart and is receiving treatment at the Red Cross hospital. We do not know where we are going to sleep tonight,” she said. Abdulatief Petersen, 63, said residents of the flats believed the fire was started by a petrol bomb that was thrown at the home of a person targeted by gangsters. He said “bad” gang-related incidents had occurred recently in the area, and people living in the area were targeted by gangs. Petersen, who has been running a feeding scheme in the area, lost two vehicles in the fire, which he said were used for collecting donations and distributing food. He also lost stationery he was to donate to needy children. “With my age and health, this is not sitting well with me. The fire has caused extensive damage. I have lost all my stock used for the feeding scheme; however, we are grateful that no life that was lost in the fire,” he said. Cape Argus