by Alex Tabisher My central point this week will be disambiguation. This is the act of removing the ambiguities that might creep into a statement, question or command. The idea is to be as clear as possible on what one is saying, asking or inferring. For example, I could say: “Kamala had some good things to say on Joe.” This could mean that either she said the things while sitting on top of Joe, or that she was speaking about him. I created that simple exemplar for the sake of clarity. On the American election, I would venture the following: “Joe Biden was voted in on the strength of about 70 million yesses for him to be president.” We do not make too much of the chilling truth that there were another 70 million or so who voted for Trump to sit for a second term. This tangential example will, on disambiguation, dilute much of what Biden said in his victory speech. Of course, after Trump, there would be a need for healing. Of course, Democrats and Republicans live cheek by jowl but share a common nationality, that of American. They, unlike us, however, use the vote to make necessary changes, no matter which way they vote. Allow me to touch on Kamala for a moment (another utterance crying for disambiguation). She is touted as Biden’s running-mate. Then she is referred to as the Vice-President-in-waiting. Then her credits go like this: the first woman to occupy this powerful position. She is also the first black-American woman to rise this high. Then she is also the first American of Asian descent to occupy so rare a seat of power. Closing the sequence would be that she is the first black-American-Asian woman, etc. Consider the mantra: Rosa sat, so Ruby could walk, so Kamala could run. This explains the unambiguous white pants suit for women power that Kamala wore when she was announced as Joe’s vice. (Joe’s vice? Rush in with the disambiguation tools). Rosa Louise McCauley Parks wasn’t the first black to refuse to give up a seat on a bus to a white. Nine months before that, a 15-year-old Claudette Colvin said “Nah”. Rosa was just a more suitable agent for the bus boycott because she had a record as an activist. She was arrested on December 1, 1955. As for little 6-year-old Ruby Nell Bridges Hall, she was the youngest of a group of African-American children escorted into the all-white William Frantz Elementary School in New Orleans in November 1960. Why did I flight these stories? Because we deliberately introduce ambiguities to protect our own insecurities, dogmas, hegemonies. We bolster this with race categories, faith orientation and other spurious categories. We end up with one of our own ladies belligerently refusing to answer the questions in a commission that is addressing the social aberrations and betrayal of the voter base. Where are our women of integrity, South Africa, I fondly ask? (To those rushing in to eviscerate me, I am in hiding in the village of Thulsasendrapuram in India.) * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).