by Carlos Mesquita This week saw another two examples of what I have been writing about for the past three weeks – the reasons why I would rather sleep on the streets than in a shelter in Cape Town. Still disappointed? SO AM I! One of the innovations in sheltering the homeless that I quite support and feel should be part of the plan moving forward in housing the homeless is the safe space concept as it has been applied at the City’s Safe Space Culemborg #2. It is an entry phase space, where homeless people can potentially sleep safely, wash, access services and store their belongings … AND IT’S FREE. Unfortunately, close on the heels of a report that a sick man had been neglected at one of the shelters, the Cape Argus publishes the story about gross human rights violations allegedly being committed at one of the City’s safe spaces – “Paint City” in Bellville. Feeling Disgruntled? SO AM I! The matter was reported to Councillor Zahid Badrodien, MCC Community Services & Health by a number of prominent citizens and role players in the sector. Dr Badrodien correctly states that the City has launched an investigation but the forensics team has told some of the complainants that their findings will be for the City’s eyes only. Confused? SO AM I! I would like to ask Dr Badrodien the following questions: How is it possible that the City did not know about these alleged violations in one of its own safe spaces? Do they not monitor and evaluate their service providers? Concerned? SO AM I! In light of the serious nature of the allegations, did it not then seem appropriate to suspend the contract they have with the service provider in order to ensure a transparent investigation and prevent any further threats to and assaults of clients who might want their voices heard? Surprised? SO AM I! When the Cape Argus published the details of a resident turned witness being assaulted, evicted and then accommodated in a place of safety, didn’t it then become reason enough to suspend the service provider? Appalled? SO AM I! Don’t you think the public that listens to your constant plea to “give responsibly” to places such as “Paint City” deserve an explanation as to how it comes to be that a company with no previous experience in sheltering the homeless happens to have a contract with the City for two out of the three Safe Spaces they have opened? Unhappy? SO AM I! How it is possible to provide the services meant to be provided at the safe spaces when you have a service provider that is not even registered with the Department of Social Development and thus not obliged to adhere to the norms and standards of a shelter (which in your own documentation, you describe as a safe space”)? Gob smacked? SO AM I! Another worrying factor is the City’s candidate for councillor in Ward 115 – one of his campaign promises is to “prioritise the homeless”. His past involvement with the Pride Shelter and comments he made during a recent DA webinar with Dr Badrodien begs the question: what is it about the homeless they will be prioritising? Does “prioritising the homeless” mean working with the homeless to their benefit or without them and to their detriment? Worried? SO AM I! * Carlos Mesquita and a handful of others formed HAC (the Homeless Action Committee) that lobbies for the rights of the homeless. He also manages Our House in Oranjezicht, which is powered by the Community Chest. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.