Cape Town - Twenty-five NGOs joined the Day of National Action Against Gender-based Violence protest outside Parliament at the weekend to demonstrate against the scourge. The organisations called for the sexual offenders list to be made public, formulation of gender-based violence (GBV) policies by higher education institutions and workplaces, for institutions working with children to develop mandatory background checks for potential employees, and to veto those found with history of domestic and sexual violence. The Great People of South Africa chairperson Zintle Khobeni said GBV was prevalent in communities and had become a norm. She said it also caused a culture of “by-standerism” by community members, friends and families of perpetrators and victims, which further exacerbates the problem. Khobeni said while the government has left the fight to civil society, the police needed to be trained and re-educated about the laws that mandate them to act accordingly. “Between July 1 and September 31, 92 cases were struck off court rolls due to police inefficiency. It’s no surprise that you hear of victims being turned away by the SAPS, as it is rigged and corrupt. The SAPS does not favour victims of GBV, it is ‘anti-woman’ and extremely homophobic. This is unacceptable behaviour. The government has always left the fight of everything to the civil society sector. So yes, we yet again carry our ailing and very vulnerable groups on our backs,” Khobeni said. Langa For Men co-founder Siyabonga Khusela said under the current legislation, perpetrators were enjoying more rights and privileges than victims. “The government should redesign the legislation to favour the victims and not the perpetrators. We are also calling for testing labs to be opened in our township. When one has been raped, they are forced to get tested in places that are far from where they reside, which requires travelling. This, at times, doesn't happen as other victims can not afford to go to such labs, and end up dropping the case as there is not enough evidence and the perpetrators go free,” he said. Future Females Foundation director Philippa Dods said: “In comparison to other protests against GBV in Cape Town this year, this protest was smaller, there were significantly less people but it was powerful. “There was quiet singing, there was crying. It was emotional and meaningful, I just hope it has as much of an impact on government, as it did on the protesters.” Cape Argus Representatives of NGOs stand outside Parliament to demonstrate against gender-based violence.