Cape Town - About 92% of people in need of mental health treatment in South Africa do not receive it. This was highlighted by the head of the Clinical Unit for General Adult Psychiatry at Valkenberg Hospital, Dr Qhama Cossie. Cossie was addressing several people who had gathered on the grounds of the psychiatric hospital to discuss the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on services rendered. “It would be remiss of me not to use this as an opportunity to motivate for additional resources to go into mental health. Mental health illnesses are a significant burden in terms of illnesses that are prevalent in our society,” said Cossie. The specialist hospital provides services for both voluntary and involuntary patients, as well as inpatient and outpatient services. The hospital faced immense challenges during the beginning stages of the pandemic, as it now had to provide care to psychiatric patients with Covid-19, patients under investigation, as well as regular patients (unknown in terms of positive Covid-19 status). “At the advent of Covid-19, we were particularly worried about our psychiatric population. “Valkenberg Hospital looks after patients with severe mental illnesses. These are patients who are largely in hospital against their will, they have no capacity to agree to being in hospital. They may be behaviourally disturbed. “Not able to socially distance. Not able to keep their masks on for long periods and not able to wash their hands regularly, so we were particularly worried about having Covid-19 outbreaks within our institution.” The hospital recorded over 80 patients confirmed to have contracted the virus, with two patients transferred for further treatment. All have since recovered, as well as infected staff. Previously de-escalated services have slowly started to resume. Hospital chief executive Carol Dean said the last six months have been trying for the facility, however, it has culminated in the innovative use of technology to render psychiatric services – such as tele-counselling and tele-psychiatry. Forensic Service head Professor Sean Kaliski said because the courts were still open and operational while they were on lockdown, there was a fear as to whether those referred to by the courts/prisons for assessment were Covid-19 positive. Voluntary patient Jodie Tucker said adjusting to the pandemic and lockdown had been extremely difficult, but thanked staff for making it easier. “Through therapy, I have worked through so much and am slowly breaking down the walls of what has happened in my life and what I still need to overcome, and that I can do it. It is possible.” Voluntary patient Monwabisi Maci, 31, from Khayelitsha, said the pandemic and lockdown had been stressful but with some personal benefits, as it allowed him to focus on his art, creating intricate pieces from tree droppings found on the grounds. Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said mental health distress remains largely unacknowledged and not treated as determinedly as physical illnesses, with symptoms often minimised or overlooked. Cape Argus