Cape Town - Sixteen years after three young children from Maraiskamp, George went missing, a private investigator says investigations continue with potential suspects identified. On Saturday, October 2, 2004,  Simia Carolus, who was 16 at the time, her brother Geraldo Carolus, 10, and their stepbrother André Adams, 10, left to buy school shoes at a Pep Store in Nelson Mandela Boulevard. They never returned home. Private investigators Consulting Detectives are trying to revive search efforts and generate new leads. It is uncertain whether the siblings reached the store. They remain missing to date despite extensive search operations by members of the crime prevention units of George, Conville and Thembalethu, reservists, crime intelligence and the community. Private investigator Leon Rossouw said the children’s case should not be buried in a filing cabinet and forgotten. Rossouw has been involved in investigations for the past 30 years, with a focus on cold cases. He believes that the siblings knew the person involved in their disappearance, an aspect at the core of his investigations. “I can also just say that persons have already been identified by name who are part of my investigation and I believe our answers do not lie far from the house where the three children lived and that they knew the person or persons. It is certainly so.” Maurica Jacobs, from George, was friends with the eldest sibling and lived on the same street as the family. She recalled the day the children went missing. On that Saturday morning, her mother had sent her to the butchery and she walked past the family’s home. “We walked together. She told me they’re going to go to Mr Meat in town then going to come back to buy the shoes. So I don’t know if they took a taxi or what happened because I crossed the road.” She said later the same day the children’s mother and step father asked her where the children were and she told them how they had gone separate ways. “And that was the last time I saw my friend and her brothers,” she said. “I love my friend and pray to God to see her again.” If anyone has any information about the children or the case, contact Consulting Detectives on 063 682 5758 or email vermis@consultingdetectives.co.za Cape Argus