Cape Town – An intensive search has been under way at Muizenberg beach for the City’s senior lifeguard who went missing on Saturday afternoon in the surfline. The search resulted in the beach’s closure  to visitors on Sunday “to allow rescuers to work quickly and efficiently”. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the police divers and other law enforcement agencies were still searching for the 22-year-old man who went missing in the surf. Mayco member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said the City was working with numerous agencies to find the seasonal lifeguard who disappeared in the surf. Badroodien said the lifeguard fell off a rescue sled being towed by a jet ski while on route to assist a kite surfer in distress off St James. “Just before 3pm, Muizenberg lifeguards responded to the call about the kite surfer by launching their jet ski. The senior lifeguard was operating the craft, with the seasonal lifeguard on the rescue sled,” Badroodien said. He said it was suspected the lifeguard was knocked off the sled, about 50 to 100 metres offshore, and then disappeared in the water. Badroodien added the search continued with sweeping patrols and water patrols, until the light began to fade. "The City will do everything possible to find the lifeguard, and to assist his colleagues, family and friends during this difficult time," he said. Meanwhile, the City said counselling had been arranged for the lifeguard’s colleagues and friends. Video: Armand Hough/African News Agency National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesperson Craig Lambinon said that despite an extensive air, sea and shoreline search, there was no sign of the missing lifeguard, and the Police Dive Unit was tasked to continue their ongoing search operation. Lambinon said authorities discouraged bathing at Muizenberg yesterday to allow space for rescue craft to operate in the surf line that were assisting the Police Dive Unit in their search. “At the time of the incident NSRI Simon’s Town and the City’s lifeguards were responding to assist three kite boarders in difficulty offshore between Muizenberg and Kalk Bay. "The kite boarders were assisted to shore safely and they required no further assistance.” The incident happened on the same day that the NSRI Table Bay duty crew were activated following reports of a 59-year-old man falling overboard from a fishing vessel at moorings at Duncan Dock in the Port of Table Bay. Lambinon said the police divers scuba-dived at the location where the man had last been seen and during a search the body of the man was recovered. Cape Argus