Cape Town - The Cape Town station deck taxi rank shooting, which left six men and a woman wounded, has been condemned by taxi bosses and transport officials. A suspect aged 31 will appear in court following Monday’s shooting early in the afternoon. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said crime experts and detectives combed scenes in Old Marine Drive, Strand Street and Buitenkant Street for clues. Gunmen opened fire before fleeing in various directions while still discharging their firearms, she said. “However, a traffic official apprehended one suspect and confiscated a firearm,” Rwexana said. Attempted murder cases were being probed, she said. “The suspect will appear in court once he has been charged. “The possibility that the incident is related to the taxi industry is not ruled out,” said Rwexana. SA National Taxi Council (Santaco) provincial spokesperson Gershon Geyer condemned the shooting. “An act of violence in the taxi industry is not acceptable. We hope the perpetrators are caught and must face the full brunt of the law. There is no place for this kind of behaviour within the taxi industry,” he said. City transport portfolio committee chairperson Angus McKenzie said national government was responsible for dealing with the ongoing taxi war, which was affecting innocent people and commuters. He said the situation could not be allowed to continue and the taxi industry needed to be regulated. Traffic officers and police surrounded a suspect shortly the shooting yesterday. The suspected gunman was arrested by a city traffic officer on patrol. His weapon was confiscated. Mayco safety and security member JP Smith commended the traffic officer for his speedy response in pursuing and apprehending the suspect, who was armed with a 9mm gun. “He didn't think twice about running down an armed man so he could ensure no one else was injured and the criminal was caught,” said Smith. He said the officer's bravery had ensured there would be justice for those who were shot. Cape Argus