by Sharon Cottle Over the past seven months, every resident has been impacted by the coronavirus pandemic and each municipality across the globe has had to respond to the crisis as effectively and strategically as possible. Six months before the Covid-19 crisis, the City launched its Cape Town Resilience Strategy. I cannot stress enough how grateful I am that we were equipped with such a robust and strategic planning tool to confront such a time as this. The level of competence and strategic direction provided to the administration by the transversal team led by the chief resilience officer has truly been commendable. Our resilience strategy classifies a pandemic as an acute shock, which is a sudden, sharp event that threatens a city. As an administration, we had to respond to this acute shock in the most collaborative way possible, which we did by incorporating 20 of the actions in the resilience strategy into our transversal response. I believe that we were able to cope with the extreme pressures we had to face as a municipality. Our resilience strategy is dedicated to underlying processes and behaviours required by the City government to improve resilience across a wide portfolio of projects. This way, we ensured that resilience considerations were already incorporated into our processes and started fostering resilience thinking into decision-making for some time already. Cape Town is the only city among the members of the Global Resilient Cities Network that has a dedicated focus on processes and behaviours to build resilience. This focus area of our strategy was deliberate, and followed deep reflection following the City’s response to the drought. The City’s Covid-19 transversal response took a portfolio approach to implementation. There are several programmes and projects supported by project managers and the entire response has been guided by the principles of resilience, including the need to create redundancies, to be integrated, to be flexible and to be robust. The Resilience Department hosted a workshop with 25 City staff early in March to map the possible disruptions of the coronavirus on a range of City systems. A report was produced, and this work birthed the pandemic business continuity committee, which has been chaired by the City’s resilience director. Adaptive management  remained a key founding principle in our response as the pandemic is multidirectional in nature. During the pandemic, multiple data tools were produced and used including a business continuity dashboard to present responses to service requests; a vulnerability viewer to direct line department actions in a targeted way; a human resources online tool to track staff Covid-19 cases, notably in front-line services, and a fatalities management dashboard to track preparedness for worst-case scenarios. The vulnerability viewer is expected to be repurposed now for preparation of other shocks, such as flooding and heatwaves. The viewer has multiple layers of data and has also been used to track food relief distribution. The City made use of robust scenario planning for several projects in the portfolio response, including for determining the number and location of clinic overflow facilities that were constructed and for considering approaches to quarantine and isolation facilities. The City collaborated extensively with the provincial government, which led the public health response to the pandemic, including the approach to quarantine and isolation; developing an approach to hot spots and planning for fatalities management, among other topics. Looking ahead towards our road to recovery, scenarios have now been endorsed by the City’s leadership and the City’s mayoral committee. Many of the actions in the resilience strategy and tools that have been developed thus far will most definitely guide our priorities during the recovery period and our response to the future trajectory of the Covid-19 pandemic in the city. * Sharon Cottle, Mayoral committee member for corporate services. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.