Cape Town - The Municipal Planning Tribunal has approved a development in Bo-Kaap, which residents have opposed. Tribunal chairperson Dave Daniels said the proposed development was approved with conditions. “The City has declined the departure application to preserve the local context of the adjacent Bo-Kaap dwelling house,” said Daniels. He said the property is located adjacent to the edge of the CBD. “The property is one of a few buildings abutting on the residential edge of the suburb of Bo-Kaap that contains business and office uses. The majority of uses on this side of Buitengracht Street are residential in nature. The dwelling houses are a maximum of double storey, while the limited number of business/office use buildings are three to five storeys. The proposal is to redevelop the property into an approximately five-storey mixed-use development, with offices on the first (ground) storey and six flats above that. Portions of the existing historic building will be retained.” Around five objections were received; a number of objectors (in close proximity to the development) have indicated that they consider that the proposed development will have a negative impact on their property value. Daniels said: “The application also complies with City policies, such as the Metropolitan Spatial Development Framework, Table Bay District Plan, Integrated Development Plan, Economic Growth Strategy, Social Development Strategy, Transit Orientated Development Strategic Framework, Densification Policy, and Urban Design Policy. The introduction of residential units to this area will have a positive impact on the surrounding area. The proposal will also not have a negative impact on the surrounding heritage context.” Resident Dirk Versfield said: “Permitting this development will make a complete mockery of the proclamation of the Bo-Kaap as a heritage zone. The development will completely overshadow dwellings in Jordaan Street itself and detrimentally impact on the character of the neighbourhood.” Resident Deborah Gericke said: “Should this proposal go ahead, I would find that my property was devalued as a result of this development. The Bo-Kaap is already a densely populated area and this development will also mean a loss of privacy, as the properties behind will be overlooked.” Cape Argus