by David Biggs I was pleased to read that those brightly coloured Muizenberg beach boxes are to be renovated and repainted. They represent an almost forgotten era when people arrived at the seaside fully dressed and needed somewhere private in which to put on their bathing dress. Those beach boxes have become the trademark of the area. It would be sad to have them removed. I wonder how many people remember the “Men Only Changing Booth” once situated on the Jager Walk beside Fish Hoek beach? It was for men only because there was a modesty wall that hid the occupants only from the waist down. Apart from that low modesty wall, the front of the booth was wide open. It would not have been suitable for female swimmers. Each summer the painted sign on the wall would be progressively vandalised by having one letter at a time scraped off. So it started the season as “Men Only Changing Booth”, and soon became “Men Only hanging Booth”. A few weeks later it become “Me Only hanging Booth”, and soon shrank to “Me On hanging Boot”. The next step was to change the Boot into “Boo”, and by the end of summer the sign had degenerated to “Me On Hanging Poo”. You could judge how far the swimming season had progressed by the current wording of the sign. I never knew anybody who used the booth as a place to change, unlike the Muizenberg bathing boxes, which served a useful purpose. I never heard any comments when the booth disappeared. It wasn’t greatly missed. I miss that old shrinking sign though. It was a Fish Hoek tradition – slightly childish, maybe, but a little “in” joke we residents enjoyed. We old Fish Hoek folk are easily amused. Last Laugh John and George met this man in the bar and asked him what he did for a living. “I make up riddles,“ he said. “That’s fascinating,” said John. “Ask us one.” “Okay,” he replied, “what’s the difference between a fish and an umbrella?” John and George thought for a while, then John said: “Okay, I give up.” “Me too,” said George. “What’s the answer?” “I’ve no idea,” said the man. “I only make up riddles. Not answers.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.