Cape Town - The Charleston Hill Action Group (Chag), a community lobby group in Paarl, is in uproar over the approval by the Drakenstein Municipality of an application by the Yara fertiliser blending plant to extend its operations in the town, which date back to 2017. On Friday the municipality released a statement in which it said: “The Drakenstein Municipality appeal committee considered Yara’s application for the amendment of conditions to allow an extension of the existing granular fertiliser plant, and unanimously found in favour.” Community leader Herschel Arendse said: “The municipal officials are well aware of the community’s concerns about the plant and our health. “The screening air quality impact assessment states that the air quality in the vicinity of the Charleston Hill Primary School is not good for health. The municipality had a duty of care to obtain the unbiased facts on air pollution as well as the negative impact of acute and chronic toxicity on the 1  200 children attending the school." Municipality spokesperson Riana Geldenhuys said the approval had been granted with the proviso that Yara adheres to several stringent conditions before and after the completion of the extension. “These conditions include the introduction of various measures to mitigate environmental impact; a condition that certain emission levels may not be increased as a result of the extension; a limitation on the throughput of fertiliser per annum; and a limitation of the actual activities on site. “The municipality is satisfied that it duly considered all relevant aspects that relate to this matter. Drakenstein municipality is also satisfied that the decision and conditions attached to it address all aspects in a fair and reasonable manner and in the interest of all concerned,” said Geldenhuys. In 2017 the municipality originally turned down the application for the plant’s expansion. Yara appealed the matter before the municipality’s appeal committee. Opposition by Chag led to the matter going before the Western Cape High Court, which granted permission to the appeal committee to reconsider the matter afresh. Geldenhuys said: “During the past two years, the municipality applied thorough due diligence relating to all relevant legislative requirements and legal advice as to the aspects to be considered relating to the proposed extension. Further environmental studies were undertaken and the municipality interacted with all relevant public authorities that are mandated to regulate specific environmental aspects that could have an influence on the proposed Yara extension. "In addition, all relevant interested and affected parties were given an opportunity to comment on the study,” Geldenhuys said. Cape Argus