by Mo Noor Joseph Watching the 5-part Chasing The Sun series was like a roller-coaster ride and a very emotional experience, culminating in the most amazing final episode in any sporting series that I have ever seen. After watching this unbelievable series, where the rawest of raw emotions were on show, I have the greatest respect for this whole bunch of sporting heroes all over again. They have really made us proud and after witnessing this and putting everything into perspective, “making us proud” becomes an understatement. President Mandela said, “Sport has the power to change the world.” And so it did. Not only does this documentary deserve a sporting Oscar, but so does the whole team, starting from the all-conquering Rassie Erasmus, down to the last person involved with this World Cup-winning team. Never, ever have we seen anything like the behind the scenes moments that we have experienced watching this doccie. It was just astonishing. We could not wait for the final episode and boy oh boy what an ending. I believe there were buckets full of tears all over again. If I have to single out anybody in this team it would be everybody. Our players were so highly motivated to win this World Cup. So much so, to go out on to the field and cause havoc and run rum amok in a sporting sense, to scare the hell out of the England team, to do it for their families, their country and for all our people back home. If anybody wants to equate that to bullying than it’s just a matter of crying over spilt milk. This time we came out proud winners and nothing can change that, not even the memory of the 1879 Anglo-Zulu War. ⚠️ Tears expected! The incredible story behind @Makazole16's historic try in the Rugby World Cup final and the numbers on the back of the @Springboks' jerseys 🇿🇦🥺#ChasingTheSun pic.twitter.com/f3X5w2jrl8 * Mo Noor Joseph, Crawford. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.