Cape Town - The Bonteheuwel Development Forum (BDF) has accused ward councillors Angus McKenzie and Theresa Thompson of causing chaos and mayhem in the area at the expense of poor and vulnerable residents and children. This after the two allegedly stopped the registration process for children on the Violence Prevention Through Urban Upgrade Programme (VPUUP) until they launched it publicly, in an attempt to score political points. BDF chairperson Hendrietta Abraham said the VPUUP was sponsored by German funders and the City, and  had been hijacked by the councillors purporting it to be funded by them as well. Abraham said the first leg of the programme had been operational for almost two months, with the focus on pregnant women, and the second leg of feeding schemes, community food gardens, educare centres and children between 0 and 6 years old kicked off more than two weeks ago. “On November 12, the fieldworkers were meant to start registering minors for voucher support. McKenzie, his assistant and other DA supporters stopped the process, insisting that all VPUUP registration work should stop until he and Thompson launched the programme publicly,” she said. “The councillors with their greed for political point scoring did the opposite. There were long queues of people waiting to be served by inadequately-trained DA members to capture data on the system,” she said. Abraham said neighbouring areas had already started to receive vouchers. She said the political games being played by the councillors meant that they would not be able to qualify for the full three-month period. McKenzie said the City through sub-council 5 had a responsibility to launch the project and make it accessible to as many people as possible. “Unregistered or registered community-based organisations are welcome to support the roll-out of the project but the responsibility sits with the council and its appointed service providers, in this case the VPUUP.” Thompson was approached for comment, but failed to respond. Cape Argus