Gender-based violence (GBV) has taken our country by storm. President Cyril Ramaphosa declared GBV a national crisis before Covid-19 struck, however, since the dawn of the Covid-19 pandemic, acts of gender-based violence have intensified. This is due largely to the fact that the lockdown, job losses and other social problems now leave women without their support mechanisms and networks. Some women are living in their homes being subjected to terrible acts of violence and suffering in silence because they have nowhere to report the violence they are experiencing. Reporting is critical to the safety and well-being of women being abused. A good strategy to adopt is to develop a safety plan. Women who know that they are vulnerable should have people to contact when the violence start. Brief your contact person beforehand. You can even have code language to tell them that you need help. Have a short message which means “come and get me” and a different message if the violence has escalated, which indicates that the police should be called. This can ensure that no serious harm is done to the person suffering the abuse. If you are not comfortable asking someone you know to assist you, call the National Gender-Based Violence Command Centre of the police and you will be assisted immediately. The number is 0800428428. You can also SMS “HELP” TO 31531. It is also wise to have an emergency bag ready for a quick get away when you feel unsafe at home. You should have your basic toiletries, underwear medications and any other thing you know you will need. Also have the numbers of family and close friends in the bag in case you leave behind or have your cell phone taken from you. Always seek help. This can save your life. * Dr Lesley Ann Foster, executive director of Masimanyane Women’s Rights International. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).