Cape Town - Many Golden Arrow Bus Services (Gabs) drivers are suffering from post traumatic stress as a result of the regular attacks on their buses, and this state of affairs cannot be allowed to continue, according to Gabs chief executive Francois Meyer. Meyer was addressing the standing committee on transport and public works during a briefing on the impact of arson and other criminal attacks on its workers and commuters. Meyer said: “Our staff suffer from post traumatic stress. "There’s a fear factor as every morning they get up at 3am or 4am and then they have to go into work in areas that are affected by crime and have no idea what awaits them on any given day. “We supply what help we can with a social worker in the company to arrange the necessary counselling for them,” said Meyer. “It amazes me that a BEE company that gives so much back to the communities we serve can be attacked by these same communities in such a brutal way. “For us it feels like the government largely ignores the fact that we have to operate their contract in war zone conditions.” Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said: “The enforcement environment out there is anarchy and the size of our traffic fleets cannot begin to establish order in an increasingly lawless environment. “A big part of the problem is that while we issue around 230 000 to 280 000 fines a month, the fines mean nothing if the criminal justice system doesn't create consequences for them,” said Smith. Committee member Andricus van der Westhuizen (DA) said: “We are quite perturbed by the reports we read in the newspapers about these attacks, but the picture you have painted is far worse than we thought and it seems to me that we have even more reason to be concerned.” Committee chair Daylin Mitchell said: “ I will submit parliamentary questions to the Transport and Public Works MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, requesting a comprehensive list of all attacks on public transport buses.” “In each instance, I will seek clarity on whether or not an arrest was made, a charge laid, and a conviction finalised.  I will further request an update from MEC Madikizela on the status of the provincial traffic Act and provincial road traffic regulations, as highlighted by representatives of the City of Cape Town as necessary tools for transport management,” said Mitchell. Meanwhile Mitchell said that a proposal by members to invite representatives of the police and the department of community safety would be incorporated into the committee’s resolutions. Cape Argus