The article on housing: “City of Cape Town’s database ensures fair allocation of housing” in the Cape Argus on Friday, November 13 refers: This is just a follow-up of the feedback from Mr Malusi Booi’s, the mayoral committee member for human settlements, article. We live in Devon Park,  Eersterivier, and almost 500 RDP houses were and are being built in the surroundings. There are almost more than 200 completed houses standing empty which have not been allocated to the rightful owners; yet if the database is up to date then the empty houses should have been allocated to the rightful owners by now. It’s a disgrace to see how many of these houses have been vandalised, although there are a few security guards on duty. Some of these houses were illegally occupied on two or three occasions and the people were removed by the City. The question is: When will these houses be handed over to the rightful owners? Because it’s almost the festive season and there will definitely be more vandalism and invaders. *  Sulaiman Gangat,  Eersterivier. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.  In response to the letter “LETTER: Will owners in Devon Park get RDP houses by Christmas?” (November 18, 2020 Cape Argus). The housing project referred to in the letter is a Western Cape Government project and not a City housing project. The City’s Housing Needs Register is up to date. As opportunities get allocated, the recipients are removed but new applicants are constantly added when they apply. There is a great need for affordable housing and thus we must have a fair and ordered approach. The City does everything in its power to protect City and other government projects from unlawful occupation, where required and to stand up for our qualifying beneficiaries. Unlawful occupation of projects is illegal and can never be condoned. * Malusi Booi, Mayoral Committee member for Human Settlements ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.