by David Biggs They say every dark cloud has a silver lining and I’m beginning to think even the dark coronavirus cloud has a silver lining if you know where to look for it. Our government has certainly unrolled every meter of that silver lining and used it as a cover for all the country’s ills. The recent interim budget revealed quite clearly that South Africa is broke and broken. The transport system, the airways, the police, the electricity supply, the tourism industry, agriculture, you name it: all broken. Conveniently, top government officials can blame it all on Covid-19. Even private companies are using the Covid shield. I asked the financial adviser at my local bank why it is taking months to have a document changed and he rolled his eyes and said mournfully, “everything has been held up by the Covid-19 restrictions. “We’re still trying to deal with the backlog from August.” Nonsense! You can’t blame a virus for not being able to sign a document. The ANC government likewise spouts out the corona excuse for every ill. Broken infrastructure, lack of service, late pension and grant payments, poor police training – all the fault of the virus. This is blatantly untrue. All the country’s major problems have been caused by corrupt officials stealing our money. Also, by incompetent cadre idiots being appointed at vast salaries to positions they are completely unable to handle. It’s not because of any virus infection that we have the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. The state was captured long before the first little coronavirus arrived on our shores. How convenient it is to be able to say: “It’s not just us. Every country in the world has been hit by the virus.” Yes, that’s true, but other countries are not broken and broke. It takes serious corruption and incompetence to achieve that. When it comes to corruption and incompetence we are World Leaders. It would be good if that was something to be proud of, but, alas, it isn’t. Some of us old folk remember the bad old days before democracy. Our government was considered racist and oppressive. But the systems worked an we felt safe in our homes and farms. It took less than half an hour to renew you car licence. We commuted to work and school safely on reliable suburban trains. Of course everybody knows democracy is better. Now everybody has an equal right to steal whatever we like. Isn’t freedom great! Last Laugh Three South African men were sitting in a pub together. The first one looked at the front page of his newspaper, sighed and shook his head sadly. The second man read the headlines, groaned and shook his head. The third man stood up and said: “If you guys are going to talk politics, I’m off.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.