I refer to the article, “Opposition slam Western Cape’s clean audit as deceptive”, November 4, 2020. The claim that the Auditor-General of South Africa’s (Agsa) report on the state of Western Cape provincial departments is “deceptive”, displays a lack of understanding of the intention of the audit and what it means, and undermines the importance of clean government in this province. While some members of the opposition might not care about clean government, this government definitely does. And we are proud of it. The comment further calls into question the critical role the Agsa plays in strengthening our country’s democracy by enabling oversight, accountability and governance in the public sector. The report is the outcome of the Agsa’s annual mandatory audit of national and provincial departments’ financial statements, and legal and regularity prescripts. It also reflects on findings in respect of predetermined objectives, compliance with laws and regulations, and the status of internal control within these departments. The Agsa’s audit is limited to annual financial statements. This government takes good financial governance seriously. Twenty-one out of 22 unqualified audits confirm that the Western Cape government can be trusted with public funds. Having no material misstatements on annual financial statements ensures the quality of financial management within the Western Cape public sector and that money meant for the people, gets spent on the people. There is a strong correlation between the state of a department’s finances and its ability to deliver an effective service to the citizens. This assertion is supported by the countless nightmare stories of the state of finances within many national and provincial departments in South Africa, and their service delivery track record. It must also be noted that the Western Cape Department of Agriculture approached the Western Cape High court on March 10, 2020, to settle the legal dispute with the auditor-general regarding our audit findings. The judgment, delivered on June 8, 2020, was in favour of the Agriculture Department. The auditor-general was granted leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein.  When the Agsa lodged its appeal, it resulted in the suspension of the judgment of June  8, 2020. We await the decision of the Supreme Court of Appeal. * Ivan Meyer, Agriculture MEC of the Western Cape. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.