Cape Town – No additional funds will be made available to repair vandalised or damaged City facilities, the City said on Monday. Since the beginning of the new financial year in July 2020, theft at facilities amounted to about R2.3 million, with vandalism costs at approximately R10m, according to the City’s Recreation and Parks Department. Mayco member for Community Service and Health Zahid Badroodien said several of the City’s Health Department staff had been hijacked, robbed of City and personal possessions, threatened and caught in the crossfire of gang violence. This amounted to 32 incidents in the past two months. The Hague Recreation Centre in Delft was the latest to suffer extensive damages last week, in the third incident at the facility in four weeks. He said the most recent incidents involving City Health staff include a facility manager hijacked at gunpoint in Mitchells Plain on November 17 and staff members held at gunpoint and robbed of their possessions while doing home visits in Delft on November 13. “Our facilities and staff are under siege and the City will no longer provide additional funds to repair or replace facilities damaged or vandalised during protests. We will allow the insurance process to run its course, but should this not be sufficient to cover what is needed, the City will not cover the shortfall. It is simply not sustainable,” said Badroodien. He said there was no justification for attacking health workers, who have dedicated their lives to help those who are ill and in need. “Our staff at the front line must be protected. While we can invest in security, there are times when protesters overpower security due to their numbers,” said Badroodien. Other incidents include the closure of clinics, mainly in Khayelitsha, Delft and Mitchells Plain, because of gang violence, protests or the intimidation of staff. “The Matthew Goniwe clinic was threatened with arson and several incidents of harassment have been reported. It is unacceptable that our staff are traumatised and prevented from rendering services to their communities. It is those very residents who are the losers when clinics have to close or are unable to operate because of a lack of staff or equipment,” said Badroodien. Call 021 480 7700 from a cellphone and 107 from a landline or email rp.enquiries@capetown.gov.za to report illegal activities. Cape Times