Cape Town - The Western Cape will be using systems and lessons learnt from Covid-19 to address TB, a major cause of death in the Western Cape each year, Premier Alan Winde has said. “The Province will also introduce new technologies to ensure easy self-screening is possible, and will use data-management systems to properly track our performance. We will adopt hot spot-focused and behaviour change-led approaches to prevent the spread of TB among those at risk,” Winde said. The Premier was responding to queries raised by politicians. DA provincial health spokesperson Wendy Philander had questions regarding the time frames for the rollout of the plan, and sought clarity on how the Province planned to use its resources to deliver medication to those in vulnerable groups, particularly those with drug-resistant TB. “The delivery of medication and use of health-care fieldworkers was a successful innovation of the Western Cape at the height of the pandemic, and as chairperson of the health standing committee I am eager to see to it that such innovative practice continues and that this government implements the critical lessons learnt.” Winde said: “There are a number of programmes or innovations in place which can be used in the fight against TB that include telemedicine, community health-care workers, and medicine deliveries. The telemedicine programme consists of a team of doctors keeping in contact with diabetic patients who had tested positive for Covid-19. This system can be rolled out for other illnesses such as TB to manage high-risk patients and ensure they remain on their treatment regime. “The province also received additional GeneXpert testing machines from the national department at the start of the pandemic to ramp up Covid-19 testing, which will be useful in the provision of TB-testing services. “Also, 30 beds at Sonstraal Hospital have been allocated for TB patients, with strict infection prevention control measures in place.” Good MPL Brett Herron said: “If this ambitious, but essential, plan is what the Premier is committing to, we welcome it and look forward to seeing the details of how this will be implemented. This is a diagnosis and treatment plan. It would be irresponsible to focus exclusively on diagnosis and treatment without fixing the systemic conditions that make people vulnerable to TB. These include the spatial realities of our province, including the large and growing number of people living in slum conditions and those who are homeless. “We must address the causes as well, and this will require the Premier and his government to make a massive change in their attitude to housing delivery and the role of public land in addressing housing shortages.” Cape Argus