Cape Town - Notorious for its horrific accidents, the Buttskop Road level crossing in Cape Town has been realigned for pedestrian safety. In a statement released on Thursday, mayoral committee member for transport Alderman Felicity Purchase said the short-term safety measure comes after the City of Cape Town collaborated with the Rail Safety Regulator and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa). She said Frederick Street located near the level crossing located in Blackheath had to have safety measures implemented to reduce the risk of train-vehicle crashes. The realignment of the street cost approximately R2.7 million and while this was a short-term solution, Purchase said it would significantly improve pedestrian safety at the level crossing as recommended by the Rail Safety Regulator. She said the ultimate goal was to remove the level crossing, and a preliminary design to this end was completed in 2019. The cost to eliminate the level crossing is R80 million. The Buttskop level crossing has seen some of the most horrific crashes. Ten years ago, 10 children died after the minibus in which they were travelling was hit by a train. In 2018, seven people died when the bakkie in which they were travelling was struck by a train at the same crossing. The Buttskop Road level crossing is one of 10 boom-controlled level crossings in Cape Town and is said to be the second busiest level crossing in the country. All booms and signalling equipment are operated by Prasa. “I must state up front that while the realignment of Frederick Street will improve the general safety of those who use this crossing, it is a short-term solution only and it does not eliminate the level crossing, nor does it alleviate congestion. “We have plans for a more permanent solution, which includes the construction of a bridge over the railway line, the realignment of Buttskop Road and the extension of Zevenwacht Link Road between Van Riebeeck Road and Albert Philander Street. This will see a substantial increase in overall safety for all road users and will address congestion,” Purchase said. Metrorail’s regional manager in the Western Cape, Raymond Maseko, said the province’s regional rail network has the highest number of level crossings in the country. “Every measure taken to eliminate or safeguard a crossing makes the road and rail safer for commuters, employees and road users and has our full support and gratitude,” he said. Maseko urged all road users to exercise caution and to comply with traffic signage for their own safety. African News Agency (ANA)