Cape Town - The provincial government has identified jobs as a key priority and equipping people with the skills required to succeed in the workplace is an important step in creating jobs and providing young people with dignity, according to Premier Alan Winde. Winde was speaking during a visit to the Motus technical training academy to see how their work readiness programme is helping to change the lives of young people in the province. Winde said: “The programme takes young people who have just finished matric at technical schools and provides them with workplace readiness training, before placing them into three- to four-year apprenticeships in the motor industry. “The provincial department of economic development and tourism has provided funding to the programme because it is important that we develop a wide range of skills in the province. Having a strong pipeline of skills, which includes technical skills, makes us an attractive investment destination, while also making young people more employable. “The Golden Arrow Bus company is one of the businesses that has opened its doors to apprentices from the academy, and I had the opportunity to meet some of them on Monday. “During my visit, I heard that apprentices from the Motus Academy receive Golden Arrow bus passes for the duration of their training, which ensures that they are able to get to work every day without having to use their stipend money for transport.” Meanwhile, the latest jobs data released last week shows that over 60% of South African youth are unemployed. The stats also show that women, especially young black women, remain the most vulnerable group in as far as employment opportunities. Momentum Metropolitan Foundation has facilitated the application process of six young women from across the country to enrol in a 12-month online IT varsity course. Momentum’s head of youth employment Nkosinathi Mahlangu said: “The importance of digital in the future careers of young South Africans means that this sector needs to be more accessible, especially for young black women. “This course can be accessed from anywhere in the country, as long as participants have access to a device and the internet, even a young woman in the middle of Kranshoek (a settlement in Garden Route Municipality) in the Western Cape can be given access to this opportunity.” Cape Argus