Besides the fact that the death penalty has been abolished in this country, there is no actual assurance that the government will do what is necessary to curb or lessen the scourge of these atrocities. That is because perpetrators know that if they are caught or if they hand themselves over to the law, the penalties they suffer when charged with a heinous crime such as murder will not be seen or taken as being a gross violation against another human being. The families of the victims do not only want to hear about the sentencing to be dealt to perpetrators. They want to see it being done, to the fullest extent. Instead, a murderer in this country will be treated in such a manner that the next perpetrator will not think twice of committing the same crime, again and again and again. The violence against women in this country comes in many forms. Physical. Sexual. Economic. Psychological. These are all gross representations of the violation of human dignity and human rights that I believe the South African government will “overcome” if dealt with as a major priority. While researching, I came across the following: Government blogs: * Empowering women in fight against abuse, August 28, 2017 * Halt abuse against women and children, November 24, 2016 * It is in our hands to stop gender violence, November 13, 2015 * Addressing slow pace of gender equality, February 25, 2014 * Breaking the cycle of abuse, November 26, 2013 * We must stop the suffering of children, September 17, 2013 * Gender violence is not a private matter, August 19, 2013 * Let us create communities which nurture children, May 29, 2013 * Keeping our children safe from harm, May 14, 2013 * Working together we can end the cycle of abuse against women and children! March 6, 2013 * Heeding the voice of reason, December 19, 2012 * Gender violence concerns all of us, February 27, 2013 Related links: In the interim what has become of all that? This, then, is my appeal to all fathers: To take advantage of communicating positively and as much as possible with your children. Especially your sons. Maximise social-communicative gains and make distinctive contributions into your children’s lives. In so doing, you will promote better welfare and sustainability for our women and children in this country. Most of what boys know, they learn from their fathers. 1 Corinthians 16:13-14 teaches us “Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love.” Quotes by Billy Graham * “Parenting is the most important responsibility most of us will ever face, and none of us does it perfectly.” * “A good father is one of the most unsung, unpraised, unnoticed, and yet one of the most valuable assets in our society.” * Rianna Wetzel, Grassy Park. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.