Cape Town - The boy who was shot in the head during a violent service delivery protest in Laingville, St Helena Bay, has died. Leo Williams, 9, died on Monday at the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital after he was admitted more than two weeks ago. He was on life support fighting for his life. Red Cross spokesperson Dwayne Evans said: “The Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital is dedicated to providing the best possible care for our young patients and their families. We are saddened by the loss and empathise with his family and friends. Our sincere condolences to his loved ones.” Residents of the area protested over housing and land in July. They claimed the Saldanha Bay municipality had ignored them for years. Laingville was also part of the Gatvol Capetonian shutdown that took place. Police have monitored the situation to prevent flare-ups. Leo was in his wendy house watching television with friends when police fired rubber bullets. A video shows four police officers firing a number of bullets towards the wendy house. Grim images show Leo’s head struck by a bullet and his body lying in a pool of blood. The bullet was lodged in his brain and doctors could not remove the bullet. On Monday the family notified the community that the machine intended to give Leo medication had been switched off. They also informed the community that they would be switching off the life support machines. Family spokesperson Thyrone Williams said: “Leo passed away on Monday. The family is heartbroken. The legal guardian did prepare herself for this. The mother and the biological father are heartbroken by this. The community is very upset and they are saying the person who did this must be held accountable for Leo’s death.” He told the Cape Argus that Leo took his last breath at 2.40pm. “The tension is very high and it is like a ticking time bomb and I am not sure when this time bomb will explode,” said Williams. He said Leo would be laid to rest next Saturday. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate is investigating the matter. A spokesperson, Ndileka Cola, said: “I can confirm that as the result of the latest developments into this matter, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate is no longer investigating attempted murder but death as a result of police action.” Cape Argus