by David Biggs Always trying to look on the bright side, I can report that it’s never been easier to order your favourite wine. My internet pages are packed with offers of wine at special lockdown prices to be delivered free of charge right to your doorstep. (All major credit cards accepted.) There’s a catch, of course. Sooner or later reality rears it gloomy head and inserts the phrase, “Delivery as soon as lockdown ends.” Well thanks for nothing. I’m thirsty NOW! It’s pointless telling me I can enjoy a glass of wine in two months time, or whenever Mrs Dlamini Zuma sees fit. I may not be thirsty then. I might even have died in the meantime from drinking hand sanitiser in desperation, and what use will your free delivery be then? A merry funeral, perhaps? I lie awake at night worrying about all sorts of things that aren’t happening. Is anybody looking after all those Boeings parked in neat rows at our major airports? Think of all those expensive tyres slowly going flat and perishing in the African sunshine. Will they be in good enough condition to handle the weight of a passenger aircraft landing on them once the shutdown is over? Is anybody going from parked plane to parked plane regularly opening the doors to air them? Are they using portable fans to move the air around? The stagnant air in enclosed spaces can soon become musty. It would be a major tragedy if all those airliners were finally opened up only to find the seats mouldy and carpets rotted. I care because, as a taxpayer, I’m a shareholder in all state-owned entities. I paid for a little bit of every one of those Boeings. I have memories of my parents and neighbours buying the seats of scrapped bomber aircraft at the end of World War II. My mother upholstered them as armchairs and they’re probably still in our family members’ homes somewhere. I hope our parked Boeings don’t end up as cheap lounge furniture, although I guess they may be more comfortable than the seats from 1942 Bristol Blenheim bombers. Last Laugh A kindergarten class was taken on a field trip to the local police station to learn all about law enforcement. They stopped in front of a notice board displaying photos of the town’s “Ten most wanted criminals”. Are those real pictures of bad guys?” asked a 6-year-old. “Yes, they are,” replied the duty sergeant. “Well, why didn’t you grab them when they came to have their photos taken?” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.