Cape Town - Western Cape residents and organisations working in the victim support services sector in the fight against gender-based violence have been urged to comment on the Victim Support Services Bill. Calling for public comment on the proposed legislation, Social Development MEC Sharna Fernandez said: “The bill forms part of a critical legislative framework by government in its endeavour to combat the scourge of gender-based violence and femicide.” “The bill seeks to put the rights of the victim at the centre of the criminal justice system to ensure that while the perpetrator is afforded their rights, the rights of the victim are also upheld and protected,” said Fernandez. “For far too long the criminal justice system has overlooked the rights of victims of violence and abuse whilst the perpetrators of these heinous crimes are protected by the law. Gender-based violence sees no race, ethnicity, class or political affiliation,” she said. “We need communities, and civil society organisations to work with the government to help alleviate the high levels of trauma and violence taking place in our communities,” Fernandez said. The bill, which was gazetted and published on July 17, recognises that victims experience secondary victimisation and therefore creates the prohibition of such. It can be accessed on the National Department of Social Development website: www.dsd.gov.za. Meanwhile, just over a year since they raised 60000 signatures for a petition saying “enough is enough” after the murder of Meghan Cremer in Cape Town, the group SA Women Fight Back (SAWFB) has been launched as a 240000-member organisation. Founder Bronwyn Litkie said: “SAWFB has been lobbying the government to push for legislative change in South Africa for GBV-related issues.” “We applaud the recent submission approvals by Cabinet for the amendment of the the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Bill; The National Register for Sexual Offences and The Domestic Violence Bill. “It is a positive step in the right direction in protecting South African women and children,” said Litkie. “Our petitions against bail for perpetrators are gaining momentum as they are hand delivered to the presiding magistrate on the day of proceedings. “In many instances the accused abandons bail simply because of the pressure exerted by the community and the handing in of the petition strengthens this aspect of resistance to bail application,” said Litkie. Cape Argus