Cape Town - Up to 66% of university students would be able to return to campuses, including first-year students in all undergraduate programmes, Higher Education, Science and Innovation Minister Blade Nzimande said. Nzimande said all other students would continue to be supported through remote multi-modal teaching, learning and assessment until they could return to campus. He was giving a virtual media briefing on the level 2 lockdown revised regulations for the higher education sector, and the Covid-19 measures. “Institutions submitted their updated plans on Tuesday, and are expected to begin reintegrating further groups of students up to 66% next week on Tuesday. This will also allow for return of students facing severe difficulties to continue with remote learning due to family circumstances, connectivity problems or other circumstances,” he said. He said National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) administrator Randall Carolissen had informed him on Tuesday that none of the bids competing for the supply of learning devices as specified in the bid process had achieved the mandatory requirements, as stated in the bid document. “For this reason, no contract was awarded,” Nzimande said. Carolissen said Nzimande informed NSFAS on June 4 that it would manage the procurement process of digital learning devices (laptops) for NSFAS-funded students currently registered at universities and Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges for the 2020 academic year. “NSFAS then prepared the tender document and advertised a tender on June 26 for the supply and delivery of the digital learning devices (laptops) for NSFAS funded students. The tender closed on July 13, where a total of 150 bid proposals were received,” Carolissen said. He said the 150 bid proposals were evaluated and adjudicated against the pre-qualification criteria and mandatory requirements as outlined in the advertised tender document, in accordance with the Public Finance Management Act, National Treasury instruction notes and the NSFAS supply chain management policy. Carolissen said all 150 bid proposals failed to achieve all mandatory requirements as per tender bid description. He approved the cancellation of the tender in accordance with Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act 2017 regulations. South African Union of Students secretary-general Lwandile Mtsolo said failure to reverse the decision would leave them no option but to mobilise members. He said Carolissen had overstayed his welcome as administrator. Cape Argus