Cape Town - The first group of experts from the World Health Organization arrived in South Africa on Wednesday to assist the country in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The country’s infection rates continue to soar. South Africa is now fifth on the list of top infection rates worldwide. The first 17 experts arrived and will complete the necessary period of quarantine and initiation before being deployed within the national Health Department and across provinces. Premier Alan Winde said three of the experts would be assigned to the Western Cape. “We are happy to share information with them from our experience in the Western Cape and tap into the knowledge and expertise they have gained from their global experience,” he said. According to the WHO Regional Office for Africa, confirmed cases of the virus on the continent had reached over 978 000, with 652 000 recoveries and over 21 000 deaths reported. South Africa has contributed 62.77% to the cumulative infections with 521318 confirmed cases as of August 4. The WHO team deployed to the country is led by WHO Emergency Health Officer Dr Patrick Okumu Abok. He is also the AFRO team leader for health operations and technical expertise, responsible for Covid-19 surge management. He said theirs was a multidisciplinary team of epidemiologists and other health experts, two of whom were expected to be working alongside Health Minister Zweli Mkhize. “It is undisputed that the peak would occur (in South Africa) around late June/July and August. It was agreed upon to support the national strategy,” he said. The team will focus on surveillance, logistics and procurement. The group of 43 senior experts from around the world includes infectious disease epidemiologists and public health experts Dr David Heymann and Dr Mike Ryan. On Wednesday, Mkhize said: “Dr Mike Ryan will lead the team from Geneva and will provide us with constant advice while analysing our strategies, including the decisions we have taken as the Department of Health in our Covid-19 response. We see this as a great opportunity not only to improve our health strategies during this pandemic, but also to accelerate our path towards health-care reform.” Cape Argus