by David Biggs The Zondo Commission of Inquiry into state capture has been providing full-time and quite lucrative employment to several busy individuals for a considerable time now, but I can't help wondering what has actually been achieved. We read daily reports of new evidence of people who got away with billions of rand, bags stuffed with cash, car boots bulging with booty, but to what end? Does anybody really believe the money will be retrieved and returned to taxpayers? That the bad guys will go to jail? So far I’ve heard nobody rubbing hands in glee and saying: “That will jolly well teach them!” It’s much the same with the current wave of revelations about corrupt politicians. The standard reaction is to produce a carefully worded message expressing “concern”, and then appoint yet another “commission of inquiry” to look into the matter. And I assume that commissioners are well rewarded for their inquiries. Corruption is profitable on many levels. I think most people would like to see a slew of senior politicians arrested, swiftly tried and sentenced to long jail terms. Nobody’s particularly impressed by reports that this or that corrupt ANC cadre has been “suspended on full pay”. In real language that simply means he has been granted paid leave. Not much of a punishment really. Our country has more or less ground to a halt and not all of it can be blamed on the coronavirus. The virus is not the reason SAA has grounded all flights. We can't blame the virus for Eskom’s power shedding or the fact that commuter trains are not working. Those are symptoms of incompetent management, not a pandemic illness. Indeed, it appears the pandemic plague has opened up new and innovative ways of stealing tax-payers’ money. We South Africans are never slow to grab any opportunities that present themselves, even if our actions result in joblessness, poverty and starvation. I’m not suggesting for a moment that the virus has made things easy for the country’s leaders. We’ve never had to deal with a crisis as big as this before. But we can’t blame Covid-19 for stupidity and incompetence. It would be comforting to be able to believe our leaders are actively fighting the problem instead of milking it. Last Laugh The young couple were having marital problems and their marriage seemed to be on the rocks. “In the seven weeks we’ve been married you’ve disagreed with every thing I’ve said,” complained the husband. “It’s not been seven weeks,” retorted the bride. “It’s been eight weeks.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a regular column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus