I wrote this letter in tears as the ban of cigarettes has put us in a tight spot as a family. My fiancée was the only breadwinner supporting us (family of four) his mother, grandmother, and my parents. Since the ban we are all suffering. He was working under contract with the BAT and hasn’t been working for the past five months. We have kids in school. There are people selling cigarettes and they are not getting arrested. The government is turning a blind eye while we are suffering daily. How many families go hungry because of this ban while some people are carrying on and eating daily. Please hear our pleading cries and lift the ban. * Lisa Malefela, Heidelberg. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.  LETTER: Treat diabetes and smoking the same Every person has a right to choose whether to smoke or not. The government could look at unbanning cigarettes and prohibit smoking in public but allow people to smoke at home. No one has the right to choose for you whether to quit or continue smoking. Diabetes is also very dangerous to a person’s health in terms of Covid-19. Why not ban sugar? A person consuming sugar for a long time will become sick. Not everyone has diabetes – in the same light not everyone smokes. But they can ban one product and not the other. Both smoking, diabetes and consumption of sugar are long-term sicknesses and should be treated the same. Don’t talk about the poor economy, but ban smoking and alcohol that contribute to the economy. By banning smoking, somebody’s pocket is getting filled while the rest of the legal businesses are suffering. The legal businesses pay their taxes while illegal businesses gets away with murder * Ashok Bhyrodoyal, Phoenix. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.