Who doesn't like pancakes? Sweet or savoury, this simple yet delicious dish is celebrated all over the world in one form or another for breakfast, lunch or dinner. The beauty of pancakes is that they can be filled with almost anything. For those who have a penchant is for something sweet, there’s choose sugar and cinnamon or fillings that feature honey, fruit and ice cream. Others with a savoury palate prefer their pancakes filled with cheese, savoury mince, bacon, chicken, or vegetables. But what a lot of people don't realise is that the humble pancake dates back thousands of years and has been a favourite staple in many cultures’ diets. In ancient Greece and Rome, for example, pancakes were made from wheat flour, olive oil, honey, and curdled milk. It was called tagenias (derived from “tagenon,” the word for frying pan). Back to the present day and to celebrate this perennial favourite, Capsicum Culinary Studio chef Bernice Warner who is from the school's Port Elizabeth campus shares her favourite pancake recipe. Gourmet pancakes with brandied berries Ingredients for pancakes 2 eggs 1 cup (250ml) milk 1 cup (250ml) water 5ml vanilla essence 5ml lemon juice Grated lemon zest of 1 lemon 60ml vegetable oil 375ml cake flour 10ml baking powder Method Mix together the eggs, milk, water, lemon juice, lemon zest, oil and vanilla essence. Sieve all the dry ingredients and blend with the wet mixture in a mixing bowl with a whisk until a smooth thick batter is achieved. You might want to adjust the consistency slightly with a little water if it looks too thick. Pour a ladle full of batter at a time into a non-stick frying pan. The pancakes should be golden brown on each side. Stack the pancakes and allow to cool. Pastry cream filling Ingredients 4 egg yolks 150g castor sugar 70g cake or pastry flour 500ml full-cream milk 5ml vanilla essence Method Cream the egg yolks, sugar and flour together until smooth. Heat the milk in a saucepan to a simmer. Add a steady stream of the heated milk into the egg mixture, whisking constantly until combined. Return the mixture to the saucepan and cook over low heat, until thick and the flour has been cooked out. Allow the filling to cool before spreading onto your made pancakes. Brandied berries Ingredients 250g mixed frozen berries 45ml castor sugar 60ml brandy Method Place all the ingredients in a saucepan and bring to a boil, reduce the heat and allow the mixture to thicken slightly. Remove from the heat and allow to cool before serving with the rolled and sliced pancake. Assemblage Place a sheet of plastic wrap on a work surface large enough to form a rectangle. Place the cooled pancakes down, slightly overlapping on the sides to form a rectangle. Spread a thin layer of the pastry cream filling over the pancakes. Roll up the pancakes, making use of the plastic wrap to form a cylinder. Once rolled, wrap it tightly with the plastic wrap and refrigerate for 20 minutes. Sprinkle castor sugar on top of the roulade and brûlée with a blowtorch before cutting it into 2cm thick slices. Serve two slices a person with a heaped tablespoon of the brandied berries.  