by David Bigg Ownership of a machine, whether it’s a car, a washing machine or a lawn mower, comes with certain responsibilities. Machinery wears out and has to be serviced, maintained and repaired throughout its life. When you buy a new car it comes with a manual, which tells you you'll need to give it regular services, replace certain parts like seals and filters from time to time and make sure you check the oil, water and tyres. Of course, it's your car and you're perfectly entitled to ignore the service suggestions and simply run it until it breaks down and dies. That’s up to you. Most sensible people would tell you that’s a rather silly attitude to take. Regular maintenance saves money and prevents breakdowns. The more complex the machine, the more important it is to follow a regular maintenance schedule. I think this is why I feel such a frisson of irritation when I hear the bosses of Eskom making excuses for their power failures and telling us its load shedding is because of Eskom’s “ageing infrastructure.” Actually, Eskom's failure is not because of the age of the infrastructure, but because it has been allowed to age without sufficient maintenance. When the ANC took over the running of the country in 1994 Eskom was doing just fine. In fact, Eskom’s 1994 annual report stated that the power utility was “the world's lowest-cost producer of electricity”. It must have been a pretty efficient organisation then. A world-beater, in fact. The ANC has been in charge for 26 years or so and one would think that's plenty of time to organise a regular maintenance schedule (I’m pretty sure there was one in existence when they took over.) Now they say the system is failing because of the “ageing infrastructure.” I suspect that in real terms that means “we’ve allowed it to fall apart.” In true South African style, everybody close to taxpayers’ money has helped themselves. One company alone is being investigated for spending R139 billion on illegally inflated contracts with Eskom. I think quite a lot of routine maintenance might have been paid for by those wasted R139 billions - possibly a brand new generator or two. And that's just one of several companies that’s had a hand in Eskom’s purse. No, sorry Eskom. Don’t give me that old “ageing infrastructure” crap. The truth is you’ve robbed it “stukkend”. Last Laugh: Two colleagues were in the village pub enjoying a quiet drink when the local fire station's alarm went off. One of the men quickly put down his drink and said: “Sorry, I have to go.” “I didn't know you were a fireman,” his colleague said. “No, I’m not,” he said, “but my girlfriend's husband is.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a regular column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus