Saturday is an auspicious day in the Hindu calendar. It is Ganesh Chaturthi, which is a day that is  dedicated to celebrate the birth of Lord Ganesha, the son of God Shiva and Goddess Parvathi. Traditionally, laddu is the favoured sweetmeat to mark the occasion. We have found three delicious, but so different recipes that are quick and will improve the way you make laddus ahead of the festivities. Motichoor Laddus We don’t need to re-introduce ‘Motichoor Laddus’. Build on sweetness to your festive mood with this fresh homemade delight! Ingredients : 2 cup Chickpea Flour 1 & ½ cup Water 1 cup Sugar 1 & ½ cup Water 1 tsp Cardamom Powder 1 tsp Orange Food color Dryfruits  Purified Butter For Frying Method : In a bowl add 2 cups of chickpea flour, 1 & ½ cup of water & 1 tsp orange food color. Mix it well. — Cover round shape grater with aluminum foil paper. Make small holes with the help of a toothpick. -- Hold this grater over heated ghee. Put some batter into it and shake it slightly. Small droplets will form into the ghee. Wait for 30 seconds to a minute and remove this small bundi from ghee. — Drain the excess oil from it with the help of a sieve. — In a pan add 1 cup of sugar, 1 & ½ cup of water, 1 tsp cardamom powder boil this syrup for 5 minutes. Ass a drop of lemon juice & add prepared bundis also add melon seeds.Cook this mixture for 5 minutes. Remove it from flame and rest it covered for 10 minutes. — Transfer this mixture in plate & start making laddus once it is slightly cooled down. — Serve this in a bowl & sprinkle some pistachio on it. #foodrush #motichur #motichoor #laddu #motichurladdu #motichoorladdu #festival #laddurecipe A post shared by  FoodRush (@foodrush.recipe) on Oct 27, 2019 at 4:27am PDT We don’t need to re-introduce ‘Motichoor Laddus’. Build on sweetness to your festive mood with this fresh homemade delight! Ingredients : Method: In a bowl add chickpea flour, water and orange food colouring. Mix it well. Cover round shaped grater with aluminium foil paper. Make small holes with the help of a toothpick. Hold this grater over heated ghee. Put some batter into it and shake it slightly. Small droplets will form into the ghee. Wait for 30 seconds to a minute and remove this small bundi from ghee. Drain the excess oil from it with the help of a sieve. In a pan add the cup of sugar, the second cup of water,  cardamom powder and boil this syrup for 5 minutes. Add a drop of lemon juice and add prepared bundis also add melon seeds.Cook this mixture for 5 minutes. Remove it from flame and rest it covered for 10 minutes. Transfer this mixture in plate and start making laddus once it is slightly cooled down. — Serve this in a bowl and sprinkle some pistachio on it. Quick, easy, healthy laddus When I crave for sweets, I make these quick, easy, healthy laddus. Find the recipe below 👇 In a pan, add little ghee, roast some cashews and raisins, remove and keep it aside. In the same pan, add 1 cup of whole wheat flour to the leftover ghee. Fry on low flame until it starts changing the color slightly and gives a nice aroma. Remove them to a bigger bowl and let it cool down completely. Add sugar powder according to your taste + cardamom powder + nuts and raisins. Mix very well. Start adding the ghee (should be at room temperature). Combine well, try to make the laddus, if it breaks, keep adding little more ghee until you can shape the laddus.  Note - (if the flour is hot, you can't make the laddus, let it cool down completely) #wheatflourladdu #laddurecipe #sweetrecipes #indiansweets #gharkakhana #sweettooth  #desifood #homemadefood #foodiesofinstagram #foodporn #foodblogger #delicacy #easycooking #indianrecipes #buzzfeast #buzzfeedfood #trending #appetizer #easyrecipes #healthyfoodrecipes #indianfood #tastyfood #cookingrecipes #delightfulfood #soulfood #😋 #🍽️ #💕 A post shared by  recipes for easy cooking (@home_cooking_culture) on Aug 9, 2020 at 3:33am PDT Ingredients In a pan, add little ghee, roast some cashews and raisins, remove and keep it aside. In the same pan, add 1 cup of whole wheat flour to the leftover ghee. Fry on low flame until it starts changing the colour slightly and gives a nice aroma. Remove them to a bigger bowl and let it cool down completely. Add sugar powder according to your taste, cardamom powder, nuts and raisins. Mix very well. Start adding the ghee (should be at room temperature). Combine well, try to make the laddus, if it breaks, keep adding little more ghee until you can shape the laddus. Note - (if the flour is hot, you can't make the laddus, let it cool down completely) Oats Laddu Recipe The oats laddu is highly nutritious sweet that are offered to the god during Indian festivals.The oats present in this laddu is rich source of proteins, anti-oxidants and Oats also contain compounds called saponins, which are natural cleansers. They remove the dirt and oil that clog the pores and exfoliate the skin. Ingredients Method In a medium heat non-stick pan, add the ghee until it melts. Add the nuts and oats. Mix well and roast for five minutes. Remove from pan and transfer the nuts and oats mixture into a bowl. In a non-stick pan, heat the jaggery and water to make a syrup. Then add dates and mix well. Add elachi powder. Stir in the nuts and oats mixture and combine well. Transfer back into the bowl and let it cool down for two minutes. Using a spoon, scoop the mixture to make golf ball sized laddus with your hands. 