by Michael Bagraim As we descend deeper into unemployment and poverty, it has become clear that civil society, including employers and trade unions, needs to have a complete relook at the structure of employment and labour in South Africa. We have already spoken about the possibility of 17 million unemployed South Africans and the need for complete overhaul of our labour legal system. I had occasion, two days ago, to go down to the Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) in order to represent a business at an arbitration.The queue was literally hundreds of metres long, but unlike other government institutions, people were trying to socially distance and many were wearing masks. I engaged in discussion with at least a dozen of those in this queue as I worked my way down the queue to find out why people were coming to the CCMA. A few had come for a dispute but many (most) were coming down to fill in forms because they had been retrenched (dismissed for operational requirements). On speaking to some of the senior commissioners inside the building I was able to understand that the referral rate to the CCMA had been exponentially rising, with the majority being challenges to the retrenchments. All this was predicted at the beginning of the lockdown and, in fact, the Treasury had already said we could expect anything up to 7million retrenchments. I had an incredibly interesting discussion with an old friend of mine who happens to be a senior commissioner of the CCMA. He did tell me that they were inundated with work and that staff were working around the clock. He was extremely proud of the fact that the administration was running smoothly despite the pressure and the lack of finance. I explained to him that there was no value in having sound labour laws and incredibly innovative protections for the workforce if these laws could not be policed and implemented. With a broken CCMA, the workforce would have very little ability to ensure that their rights were fully implemented. For instance, an unfair dismissal has been incredibly easy to challenge and correct through the CCMA. They have a sterling history of being able to help people within 30 days. This is vastly different from the court system where one would have to wait at least two years to get a court date. For someone who has been dismissed, this would be an impossible wait and would be far too costly to pursue. The CCMA has delivered on its promises and has very effectively, to date, served both employers and employees. This commissioner and I then mooted an idea of a new social compact. He had suggested that each industry, either through their bargaining councils or through new institutions, have online conferences in order to discuss how the forthcoming retrenchments can be handled. Many businesses are either closing down permanently or laying off their staff until “further notice”. It is still legal if a business is trading at half strength or not at all to put its staff on the lockdown lay-off at no pay. We can’t ignore the Labour Relations Act and the need for proper consultation before a decision is made to retrench. However, we can enter into agreements with our staff. No matter what your particular philosophy is and no matter what background you come from, we are all in this boat together and a leak will sink the whole ship, regardless of whether you are in first class or third class. There needs to be a mind-shift change. To this end, we do have an institution in South Africa known as the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac). This is a vehicle by which government, labour, business and community organisations seek to co-operate through problem-solving and negotiation, on economic, labour and development issues and related challenges facing the country. If at any time during our history this body was needed, it is now the time to look to them to take us through this unprecedented crisis. This crisis is probably the greatest challenge ever seen in the history of employment in South Africa. Nedlac is enjoined to consider all proposed labour legislation and of course any legislation affecting the world of work. Now is the time for them to ease up the regulatory authority and to ensure that small business is given as much freedom as possible. Organised business and organised labour, both represented at Nedlac, must ensure that they stop grandstanding and think of the unemployed. We all know how fantastic it is to have minimum wages, but very many of us are now starting to understand how bad it is to have no wages at all. Unfortunately, the true minimum wage in South Africa today is nought rand per hour. We also have another piece of legislation called the Employment Services Act, which is there to provide for the establishment of schemes to promote the employment of young work seekers and other vulnerable persons and to provide for schemes to assist employees in distressed companies to retain employment. This legislation is completely underutilised. For instance, we are going to have to start establishing schemes and other measures to promote employment and to somehow match work seekers with available work opportunities. Many, many years ago, just after World War II, the Americans came up with a scheme called “The New Deal”. This got people working and setting up public services. At least it was a clear and unambiguous way of distributing money to people for work done. Now is the time that we need to promote the employment of youth and other vulnerable work seekers. We need the private sector to take the upper hand. We have various sectoral determinations promulgated by government in outlining provisions for the various sectors. Our labour ministry needs to revisit all these determinations so as to start freeing up various sectors. Any hardships experienced by the sectors needs to be tackled and if necessary, be deregulated. We are going to need a decade of deregulation so as to get labour working. There will be those who argue that the deregulation often leads to exploitation; this need not be a permanent feature, but should at least be tackled now so that we can get people a foothold into the economy. * Michael Bagraim is the DA's deputy spokesperson for Employment and Labour, and a labour lawyer. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.