After four long months, fitness fanatics will soon be able to work out in the gym again. Under the relaxed level 2 regulations, fitness centres are allowed to reopen but under strict conditions and protocol. The gym industry has welcomed this news as the fitness industry is on the verge of collapse. It is expected that around 80 percent of gyms are likely to shut down permanently, leaving many people without income. In a statement, Virgin Active said it had been informed that fitness operators would need to submit their Covid-19 plans to the government for approval before facilities could reopen. This process is expected to take a week to complete. The group said it was aware that all members would not be ready to return to gyms immediately and the freeze to their membership would remain in place at no cost for at least a further two months. Our doors may not be open just yet, but we’re hoping to be back in action soon.⁣ ⁣ Here are the measures we’ve put in place in our studios to make social distancing and hygiene easy:⁣ • We have reduced class capacity by 50%.⁣ • Each person has a dedicated space demarcated by a Grid box.⁣ • All classes are 100% bookable on the app and you will need to book your spot beforehand.⁣ • Before and after each class, our health and hygiene team will do the all-important job of sanitising⁣ and disinfecting the space and equipment, with a focus on high-touch areas.⁣ • Masks are to be worn at all times.⁣ ⁣ Missing group exercise classes? Don’t forget that you can enjoy all of your favourite classes by some of the⁣ top instructors from around the globe on @virginactivesa Coach.⁣ ⁣ Click the link in our bio to check out all the measures we have put in place to ensure our clubs are a safe⁣ place for when you return.⁣ ⁣ Let’s stay safe. Let’s stay active.⁣ ⁣ #VirginActive #Move #Gym #Health #Fitness #Hygiene #LiveHappilyEverActive A post shared by  Virgin Active South Africa (@virginactivesa) on Aug 14, 2020 at 12:11am PDT CEO and Founder, Manny Rivera of Planet Fitness said they have been working around the clock on negotiations with the Minister of Sport’s office to discuss the world class, best practice protocols that they have been proposed for their fitness clubs to re-open. “Planet Fitness has been hard at work, to ensure that when you return to your favourite club, once we receive the green light to re-open, you can do so safely,” the group announced. Responding to calls from the fitness industry, who have urged the government to open up gyms across the country, the chair of the Ministerial Advisory Group, Professor Salim Abdool Karim said he believes there is no reason why gyms and fitness studios should not be allowed to open safely during South Africa’s national lockdown. Speaking to the Saturday Star, Karima said: “Gyms need to take extra precautions before they can open. Those protocols have been developed. “I've seen a draft doing the rounds and I think – if the appropriate precautions are taken in terms of ensuring social distancing, there is enough space, and they only take small numbers of people at a time – there should be no reason why gyms shouldn’t be able to open up safely.” 