 Constant innovation is key to staying relevant no matter how the times change. Whether you are looking for a way to supplement your income or start a new business to support a lifestyle change, make sure that you are getting the basics of your business right to help you to succeed. Why not turn your hobby into profit and whip up some extra income? With a little bit of thought, you can turn your passion into a job that can stand the test of time. Before you get cracking, go through these tips to help you build a secure and dynamic foundation for your new venture: Keep it simple Even if your business offers a complex solution to a niche audience, try to keep things as simple as possible to ensure your business can adapt to changes that the world throws at it. Marketing, websites and even operational processes should be as simple as practically possible - the more moving parts, the more likely that something could go wrong. Give yourself some financial padding Wherever you can, try to save money for a rainy day. If there is anything that the global health crisis has taught us, it's that anything can happen. If you allow yourself a "fallback fund", you can help ensure that if something unforeseen arises, you can land a little softer and last a bit longer. Outsource what you can Where you do not have resources and expertise, it’s an excellent idea to use external suppliers. Your business may have requirements beyond your scope of abilities and it’s a good idea to outsource them. Alternatively, you can use business support services like MiBusinesssAssist to help with everything from office assistance services to marketing and even labour advice. Do your business plan You will need to understand what costs are involved in the production of your goods, as well as how much of your product you'd need to sell to make a profit. A business plan should be the very foundation of your business. Before you spend a cent on developing your business, invest some quality time in researching and producing a business plan. Use social media For starters, social media is a great way to keep an eye on the trends in your industry. Social media also offers a useful, free way to market yourself and build relationships with current and future customers. Photos are eye candy; if you can't take decent shots with your cell phone, find somebody who can! Make your business accessible One of the best ways that you can do this is by offering your product or services online. Remote companies could be the way of the future, so ensure that what you do can be done from just about anywhere in the world or at least most of what you do. Check your insurance No matter what your business entails, you should share the details with your insurer or broker to see what type of insurance is necessary. From some public liability cover to specialised car insurance, you should make sure that you have the right cover for your needs. If you are not sure about what kind of cover you need, give MiWay Business Insurance a call. They have expert staff that can give you everything from advice to an insurance quote to help you and your business along. If you do what you love, you will never work a day in your life. And if what you love is set up in an innovative and adaptable way, you can turn your passion into a roaring success. MiWay is a licensed insurer & FSP (33970). Ts & Cs apply.  