Cape Town - Scientists performed new research on the Cape fur seal and have made an interesting discovery on the maternal behaviour of the species. Researchers from the Namibian Dolphin Project, a research initiative run by Sea Search Africa, made the observation at the Cape Cross colony in Namibia. They found that the Cape fur seals should only nurse for up to a year, but several cases of pups who were several years old were still nursing when observed. This is considered energetically draining for the mother. The extra energy likely gives the pups an advantage over their peers in the future. These observations suggest that Cape fur seals can recognise and keep relations with their young over a prolonged period. Lead research author Anna Osiecka said Cape fur seals normally wean their young within a year. “It appears that some may choose to keep the bond with their pups or even feed unrelated pups. As seal milk is very rich in fat and protein, this extra ‘free’ food can give their offspring an upper hand by allowing the young to grow larger and improve their chances of survival,” she said. She said in the case of male pups, this can translate into better chances to defend a harem and father offspring when they grow up, as larger males tend to be more successful. Sea Search Director Simon Elwen said: “These animals were hunted to the brink of extinction in the last century, but with appropriate protection measures they have recovered and become numerous throughout their range. “Mothers can continue nursing their older offspring if the year's pup dies or is lost as a stillbirth. This is a great advantage to the older pups, as they can grow larger faster and will ultimately increase their chances of survival and reproduction when they grow up,” she said. “In some species, nursing inhibits future pregnancies. We don't know yet if this is the case with Cape fur seals but, if so, prolonged nursing could also provide a year without a pregnancy, allowing the mother to recover her physical condition,” Osiecka said. Cape Argus