City's property valuer 'incompetent' My letter, “It seems that this City doesn’t work for me”, dated July 26 refers. New information points to the incompetence of valuers appointed by the City of Cape Town as highlighted below. My property’s value in the general valuation roll in 2015 (GV2015) was R1 million. In 2018, with the GV2018 the value of my property increased by 68% to R1.68m. After objecting to the increased value, it was further increased by an additional 43% to R2.4m. This translated to an increase in the value of a whopping 140% from 2015 to 2018, despite no alterations to my property for the past 20 years. Upon appealing the decision of the objection of my property’s value, I was informed that the selling prices of four properties in the area were used as a yardstick to appraise my property. This would not have been problematic had it not been for the dates of the sale of these four properties based on the following stipulation pertaining to valuations reflected on the City’s website, i.e “the date of valuation must be a maximum of 12 months before the start of the financial year in which the valuation roll will be implemented”. And since the date of implementation for GV2018 is July 1, 2020, the latest date for an evaluation of any property should be July 2, 2018. Herein lies the problem. The dates of the sales of the four properties were all in 2019, well after the cut-off date of July 2, 2018. According to the City’s valuer, my property appeared to be comparable but slightly superior to the two properties sold at R2.1m and R2.3m, and hence was subsequently valued at R2.4m. The latter points to another problem. While my property’s value was increased to R2.4m, the values of the two properties used to determine my property’s value remained unchanged at R1.282 and R1.391 on the general valuation roll for 2018, despite their corresponding selling prices of R2.1m and R2.3m. In conclusion, am I correct in claiming that the valuer appointed by the City who appraised my property is grossly incompetent? You be the judge. * Adiel Ismail, Mountview. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.  Incorrect addresses did not affect calculation of valuation Thank you for affording the City the opportunity to respond to the letter “City’s property valuer ‘incompetent’”. The City undertakes a General Valuation (GV) of all properties within its jurisdiction that is valid for three consecutive years. Each GV has a fixed valuation date which reflects market conditions as at that date. In 2018 we were coming off the back of unprecedented three-year property growth, which has also been to the great advantage of property owners. Changes in market conditions after the valuation date - be they upward or downward - are therefore irrelevant within a particular GV cycle, until the next GV is carried out. The City’s valuers are highly trained and competent. International Valuation Standards (IVS 2020) is very clear on the processes that any professional valuer must follow in order to determine the market valuation of the property at a specific price. All the valuers in the City have the legislative obligation to have the qualifications required to be members of the South African Council for Property Valuers, and to abide by the Code of Conduct and the international standards and best practices required of them in order to retain their professional membership. These international standards stipulate that sales are used to derive value and a valuer, in terms of international standards, can use any supporting sales (adjusted if need be) to support a value. Thus, the standards acknowledge that not every valid sale, in the same area as the property being valued and that is a clear representation of market valuation, will be on the date of the valuation of the property. For this, various adjustments are made based on the in-depth knowledge of the performance of the market. Further, the valuation roll is audited by an independent body to ensure compliance to international standards and that the maximum deviation from the expected variances is not exceeded during the Computer Assisted Mass Appraisal procedures. The City acknowledges that the valuer did make a mistake with the addresses reflected on the form and apologises for the mistake. The incorrect addresses, however, did not affect the calculation of the valuation, as the erf numbers, sale prices, sale dates, as well as the respective supporting data, of all the sales, are correct and gives credence to the valuation decision arrived at by the valuer. We further acknowledge that there were some properties that were not reflective of the market value of the area and these have been flagged for reconsideration. We have spent much time liaising and responding to Mr Ismail’s emails, so we have been in direct contact. * Louise Muller, Director: Valuations, City of Cape Town. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.