by Dr Chantell Witten Globally, World Breast-feeding Week is celebrated from August 1 to 7 annually to raise awareness and galvanise action to promote, protect and support breast-feeding. This year’s theme, #WBW2020, will focus on the impact of infant feeding on the environment/climate change to protect the health of babies, the planet and its people. Sadly, despite all the health and social benefits of breast-feeding, South Africa has one of the lowest breast-feeding rates globally. Why is this? Women in general face a very hostile social environment in South Africa, even more so during the Covid-19 pandemic. Almost one in two households in South Africa is female-headed, and approximately 9million children live in fatherless homes. This puts an added burden on women, and most often mothers, to provide for essentials such as food, transport and health care. Non-breastfeeding implies a reliance on other methods of feeding infants, most often commercial and expensive. This inadvertently leads to inappropriate infant feeding, with the introduction of other foods before the age of 6 months. The World Health Organization and the National Department of Health recommend and promote exclusive breast-feeding for all infants during the first 6 months of life. In the era of lifelong antiretroviral treatment for HIV, all women can now safely breast-feed their infants. Infants under the age of 6 months do not need anything but breast milk. Breast milk is a unique biological material that adapts to the needs of the growing infant, providing nutrition, immunity and unique nutrients essential for neurocognitive development. However, to assist mothers in breast-feeding, we need a supportive environment at home, in our communities and in our workplaces. Breast-feeding mothers face an inordinate amount of pressure and negative inputs from hostile family members who do not support the mother’s role to mother her child as she sees fit, or from hostile public spaces that do not cater for the breast-feeding mother, such as shopping malls and restaurants. This saw Spur, the well-known family restaurant group, putting forward a public breast-feeding policy for their retail chain. All workplace environments need to endorse and comply with the code of best practice when it comes to breast-feeding. Perhaps in this time of Covid-19, more women will be working from home and will have the pleasure and privilege afforded to them to breast-feed their babies for longer. The longer children are breast-fed, the longer the health benefits and protection, even into the adult years. Breast-feeding is associated with lower rates of obesity, lower rates of non-communicable diseases and higher rates of cognitive development. Covid-19 has forced us to have compassion and stand in solidarity with each other; now, more than ever, we need to stand together with breast-feeding mothers and women in general. After all, breast-feeding is best for babies, best for our planet and best for everyone. * Dr Chantell Witten, Division of Health Professions Education, University of the Free State. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus