Cape Town - In the face of ever present danger and the scourge of gender-based violence, FaceUp Manenberg and YMCA Cape Flats, through Project Hope, is offering free self-defence classes to young girls in Manenberg. Since its inception in 2016, youth-driven and led NPO FaceUp Manenberg has offered numerous youth-targeted activities and services to the Manenberg community on gender-based violence, sustainable living, self-care and hygiene, food schemes, skills development and sports. “We aspire to create safe environments in which young people can express themselves through social activities, capacity building, sports, arts and assisting in dealing with the transition in life,” said FaceUp Manenberg founder and chairperson, Jacqueline Cupido. “Self-defence is needed in a community like Manenberg, it’s a way of protecting our girls and empowering victims of GBV and sexual abuse.” Classes are offered for young girls and women from the ages of 12. “We are hoping that our woman will be empowered to challenge the social ills that plagues us, especially with high femicide rates in South Africa. That they will be less fearful and stronger in knowing they can protect themselves.” Cupido said the sessions gave the young girls a sense of power and control, and they had shown great excitement during each session. “It is also a good way of keeping fit and releasing stress and trauma we often tend to build up. These sessions helped a lot with children suffering from behavioural issues, instilling self discipline.” “The space is created to build relationships between participants, encouraging a sisterhood, knowing that whatever challenges life throws at us, we can conquer it through the spirit of Ubuntu.” Instructor Sensei Leon Bailey said free classes were initiated three years ago through Project Hope, with the demand for and to expand to more areas increasing. Bailey said weekly sessions took place on Wednesdays and Thursdays from 11.30am-2pm. Due to restrictions in place with regards to public gatherings, not all of the children and women could be accommodated. Bailey welcomed any donations to see the project sustained as they’ve encountered a few challenges with acquiring karate gear and equipment. Classes take place at the Green Pastures Church, corner of Jordan and Duinefontein roads, Manenberg. Contact Cupido on 073 411 4250 for more information. Cape Argus