by Alex Tabisher Anyone with a modicum of sensibility would have noticed the slow, sad dwindling of the print media. Not only are newspapers thinner, but magazines are printed on cheaper paper despite increased cost to the buyer. Even the quality of the content has suffered as the print media struggles for viability in a world that is in a constant rush. Few have the time to sit and browse, page through a newspaper or magazine, solve a crossword puzzle or generally experience a sense of well-being doing this. It is often said that man is superior to animals largely because of his thumb. It enables him to be more dexterous in the handling of tools or other bric-a-brac he encounters daily. He is capable of those fine motor skills animals lack. Ironically, the thumb features in a different context. The cellphone has become the overpoweringly dominant feature of our conscious (and unconscious) lives. Have you seen the stunning digital dexterity of the texter? (Is there such a word?) My eldest grandson, Alexander, types texts almost as fast as speech. Chat groups generated by this facility have conversations flooding the ethos daily. That is where news and information are disseminated. That is where scorn and scandal thrive. That is where people make errors in protocol from which they recover, or sometimes don’t. We have got to the stage where the private thoughts, even public policies and reactions to the rest of the world by national political leaders, are available at the swipe of a thumb. No longer do we have the dignified magazines with literary evaluations of resounding dignity and truth that resound off the pages of reputable periodicals. The art of discourse and repartee are lost to the present generation. We speak in a shorthand and line drawings, reducing our life experience to the mundane and forgettable triteness of abbreviations and prepackaged communication. There is a clip for every occasion, from celebrations to commiserations; religious festivals to bacchanalian crowd-pleasers. In this time of distress, we have virtual events, meetings, teachings, advertisements.There is no area where the thumb cannot access information without having to resort to any other physical exertion than thumb-tech. We can access entertainment that is a compendium of bits from all over the world, served up as a rich confection through this versatile medium. One cannot help but admire the editors, those guys of old in the green cap-front labouring to set up the next day’s news. From laborious typesetting to electronic wizardry in a few short steps. Spare a thought for the brave souls who are aware of the ponderous weight of the competition from technology. Yet they carry on daily, dispensing commentary and advice to the world via the dwindling printed press. Consider how they supply a modicum of sanity by the act of writing opinion pieces that guide us through our mad rush. The death of the newspaper is a given. The least we can do to honour our editors is to delay it for as long as we can. * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.