by N. Gough It pains me to see how no one is talking about just how much money one spends on cigarettes these days. I smoke, I had Covid-19, survived it even with smoking, only a little less. Odd thing is: when I smoked I was fine; when I refused to pay R1 500 for a gross of cigarettes and tried to quit instead, a week later I contracted Covid-19. I decided that I was going to treat my body the exact same way as I did before contracting the disease. A pharmacist told me about this awesome product called Lungshield as I enquired about a product that would be of benefit to me while smoking during this pandemic. He suggested Lungshield. I tried it and so did my husband and I smoked right through the 14 days of contracting this virus. Right now as it stands, people buy cigs illegally and they are charging us almost quadruple the price of a packet in the shops. The government is actively participating in allowing these sellers to rob us. I never wanted to buy a gross of cigs for R300. Now I use my last money to buy a gross for R1500. I’m sure I am but one of millions of people who is feeling this hitting their pockets the hardest. I am a taxpayer and I do so that I can do right by the government and my conscience. What they are currently doing is turning me into a criminal for buying illegal cigarettes. I’m so tired of this ban, honestly. Perhaps they should ban all these people earning splendidly from this country and allow the citizens a little dignity and respect. * N. Gough. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.