Cape Town - The SA Weather Services have warned of inclement weather conditions expected in the province from today until Tuesday. The Cape Town office said a gale-force westerly to north-westerly wind reaching speeds of 62-80km/h was expected between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas in the morning, becoming south-westerly and spreading to Plettenberg Bay by evening, but easing from tomorrow morning. Localised flooding was also expected over the Cape metropole and Overberg areas in the evening, while heavy rain was expected over the Garden Route coastal areas early tomorrow morning, with disruptive snowfalls over the high-lying areas of the Cape Winelands, Central Karoo and Garden Route. The weather office also warned of high seas with wave heights between 6 to 9 metres between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas in the evening, spreading to Plettenberg Bay and Cape Columbine from this morning, subsiding west of Cape Agulhas from tomorrow afternoon. Strong winds of around 62km/h are also expected over the Cape metropole and Overberg areas this afternoon and into tomorrow morning. City of Cape Town Disaster Risk Management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said all relevant City departments and external agencies were on standby to deal with any impacts brought on by the forecast conditions. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell urged people to stay indoors and off roads. “We want to make the public aware of the latest weather warnings and, in particular, highlight the risks of being outdoors. Avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams where water is above your ankles. In buildings, move valuables above the expected flood level. In rural areas relocate animals to higher ground.” Bredell said the public should contact the relevant disaster management entities as quickly as possible should an emergency occur. Residents were urged to report emergencies to the Public Emergency Communication Centre on 0214807700 from a cellphone, or 107 from a landline. Cape Argus