by David Biggs I grew up in the pre-electronic age, when we communicated with each other by writing letters or, in cases of urgency, by making telephone calls. Most farming communities were connected by “party lines,” where all the telephones were linked to the same lines and each member had their own call sign. Ours was three long rings. Before making a call it was polite to lift the handset and ask, “is the line clear?” If somebody was in the middle of a conversation they would simply say “Busy” and you’d wait until their call ended. Of course this meant you could listen in to anybody else's calls, but it was considered bad manners to do that. Obviously, certain neighbours enjoyed hearing a little gossip from time to time and couldn't resist a little eavesdropping. For long-distance calls we phoned the operator in Noupoort, who would connect us to the great wide world out there. It was all personal and neighbourly. On several occasions when I lived in Cape Town I'd dial the Noupoort exchange and ask for the farm number, only to be told; “They’re not at home. They’re having supper with 1740. I’ll put you through to that number.” Today we are overwhelmed with electronic devices demanding our attention at all hours. My computer tells me five people I do not know are celebrating “work anniversaries” today. My cellphone calls to say my local supermarket has a special offer on pickled broccoli, my notebook urges me to take advantage of the one-day-only offer on dog biscuits (I do not have a dog). My phone “app” says I have walked only 3 250 steps today. A businessman in Upper Volta says he wishes to invest in my company (what company?) Nag, nag, nag all blooming day. I had a warning message from the bank recently to say I need to be vigilant and avoid cyber-fraud. Apparently there are phishers and all kinds of naughty folk out there trying to squeeze my precious money out of my phone. Among other things, they say I should beware of using fitness apps, because they continue to work even when my phone is switched off. Oh dear, now I’ll never know how far I’ve walked. However, if it protects my bank account I’d better obey. If I become a couch potato at least I’ll be a solvent couch potato. Is life really better today? I don’t know. That old party line in the Karoo never tried to steal my money. Last Laugh Two elderly ladies were chatting over tea. “My 80-year-old husband was still chasing after women until last year, but I quickly put a stop to that.” “How did you stop him?” “I let the air out of his wheelchair’s tyres.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.