by Nishai Moodley In South Africa, the Covid-19 outbreak has forced the education system to undergo a massive reformation due to online teaching and learning. The challenges show the major academic and infrastructural needs around the schooling system, and they have deep political and pedagogical implications. Against these challenges, the learning spaces in lecture halls and writing centres have shown three key arguments that help with the development and cultivation of writing and reading skills. First, the influence of multilingual learning. Before the first Covid-19 case in Africa, Stellenbosch University’s calendar began for the first time with the inclusion of multilingual learning in writing consultations and lectures. The Language Centre at the university introduced Xhosa-speaking consultants, alongside English and Afrikaans options, and writing consultations are now offered in these three languages. Here, the infrastructure of the learning space adapts to a multilingual setting and is considered a necessity for intellectual stimulation. Second, the introduction of hybrid learning and education. Hybrid education, the term used to refer to online and classroom learning, is difficult because of racial, class injustices and inaccessibility to online resources. When level 5 of the lockdown was implemented, many students were left without computers/laptops, smartphones, internet connectivity and adequate network coverage, and insufficient working spaces at home. Online learning brings in a level of awkwardness: such as when a meeting begins and microphone functions are on “mute” because the no one wants to speak; or when a question is asked and there is silence; also, students attend classes in pyjamas, and miss appointments. There is a great misalignment of disciplinary conduct between in-classroom participation and online education. The third point is the perception of equal power dynamics between academic staff and students. The relationship, professionalism and communication between students and teachers, tutors, writing consultants, lecturers, and professors is challenged. Professionalism speaks to dress code, knowledge-creation, punctuality and interpersonal skills relating to empowerment and confidence. Active communication looks at participation, engagement, and language use. Online education has threatened this relationship. The problem with communication emphasises the inaccessibility and lack of technological literacy among students. In a hybrid system of online and classroom learning, professionalism and communication take the argument further, with insight into the special needs of academic and computer literacy. To combat social issues of racism, patriarchy, white privilege, homophobia and gender-based violence, the relationship between academic staff and learners must link such issues with the academic curricula. The goal of multilingual and hybrid education will reform schooling systems, and this embarks on a political and pedagogical transformation. While there is some success in this regard, it is not nearly enough to address racial, class and gender oppression. The challenges presented by the pandemic have enforced three lessons for the education system in South Africa: a hybrid education consisting of online and face-to-face learning; the inclusion of multilingual learning; and the equal dynamics of communication and professionalism between students and academic staff. * Nishai Moodley is a Master’s student in the department of sociology and social anthropology at Stellenbosch University. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.