Cape Town - To highlight the pain that victims of sexual violence go through on a daily basis, the Barefoot Campaign has partnered with #Run4her, for a 30-day barefoot run, to raise funds for gender-based violence victims. The initiative is currently on day 28 of their daily 5km runs and is aiming to raising R25 000 for LifeLine, a centre offering various support services to victims of gender-based violence. Sabie Mashigo from #Run4her, who is a survivor of gender-based violence and initiated the idea, said when she was raped while at a tertiary institution, she didn’t know about any resources available. “This initiative is close to my heart because when I was raped, I was at varsity, but I was just a child. I didn’t know there were options available for me and I was scared I would not be believed. I didn’t trust that the police would treat me fairly and I didn’t get counselling, and suffered for years. I had three failed suicide attempts and I developed eating disorders, bulimia and anorexia,” she said. Mashigo said she didn’t want any victims of gender-based violence to go through what she went through and that it was important that she informs them about the many resources available at their disposal. “Its been very hard, waking up to run every single day, day after day, sick or not, tired or not. However, what motivated me was the end result. Even if I don’t reach my target, I would have educated people about gender-based violence and also where to go for help,” she said. Traimaine Barnes, from the Barefoot Campaign, said they partnered with #Run4her to create awareness about sexual violence. “Athletes from #Run4her run the last kilometre of their races barefoot to acknowledge that even though being barefoot can be uncomfortable and painful at times, there’s absolutely nothing that can compare to the physical, psychological and emotional suffering that survivors of rape and sexual abuse experience. Due to Covid-19, athletes have not been running barefoot,” she said. Barnes said, at the Barefoot Campaign, they believed the place where a victim goes to report violence ought to be the first point of healing. Barnes said the initiative was important because a lack of funds can have a negative impact on access and quality of service. “We encourage victims and survivors of gender-based violence to report and get help, but if we really want to be effective then we need to ensure the services we provide are of a quality that encourages reporting,” Barnes said. Cape Argus