Cape Town - Despite the level 3 lockdown regulations in place during July, 202 937 travellers, including those arriving, departing and transiting, passed through South Africa's ports of entry and exit. According to the monthly Statistics SA survey of tourism and migration, the travellers were made up of 63557 South Africans and 139380 foreigners. Risenga Maluleke, the statistics-general, said that foreign travellers made up 68914 arrivals, 70413 departures and 53 who were in transit. “This monthly statistical release provides information on South African residents and foreign travellers who entered or left South Africa in July. Specific focus is on foreign arrivals during this month,” said Maluleke. “Road transport was the most common mode of travel used by 182615 (90%) of the 202937 travellers. The total number of travellers who used air transport was 20017 (9.9%).” Cape Town International Airport, the second-busiest airport during alert level 3 in July with 3034 travellers, was a long way behind first place OR Tambo with 16722. Airports Company SA spokesperson Deirdre Davids said the majority of the travellers through Cape Town International were on repatriations flights. “These were for the most part people that might have been stranded in our country and had to go home. ‘’In fact we did lots of repatriation flights with airlines like KLM. SAA also facilitated repatriation flights,” said Davids. Looking beyond October 1, when alert level 1 regulations come into operation and foreign tourists can once again visit, Premier Alan Winde, marking World Tourism Day on Sunday, said: “We also await communication from the national government on the list of countries that will be allowed to travel when international tourism reopens.” Meanwhile, all arrivals to South Africa will be required to present a valid certificate of a negative Covid-19 test, obtained not more than 72 hours prior to the date of travel, according to South African Tourism chief executive Sisa Ntshona. “Failure to present proof of a negative test will require the traveller to quarantine at their own cost. All travellers will be screened on arrival and anyone presenting symptoms will be required to remain in quarantine until a repeat Covid-19 test is conducted. All travellers will be asked to download the Covid Alert South Africa mobile app,” added Ntshona. Cape Argus