by David Biggs It’s hard to know just what to believe about the Coronavirus pandemic. Here in the city, we seem to spend a lot of energy avoiding the pandemic. We wear our masks, keep our social distances in shops and are sprayed with sanitiser in every doorway. Roadside posters urge us to wear masks, wash our hands and stay at home. Whenever possible, I keep my car window open to ensure a healthy circulation of air. Of course, these precautions are unnecessary up there in the Karoo, where I grew up. People are naturally distanced and there’s endless fresh air in circulation. Or so I thought. But two of my farming friends have recently been tested positive and ended up in an isolation facility in Bloemfontein. Here in the crowded, thronging city, we rub shoulders with strangers in supermarkets, stand in endless queues to pay our bills and licence fees, and most of our citizens travel to and from work in crowded taxis, breathing on each other. So far (touch wood) my urban friends seem to have escaped the virus. I discovered that a particular mosquito repellent greatly reduces the number of viruses when sprayed on surfaces. Apparently the eucalyptus-based spray has been issued to British servicemen and women for some time. It doesn’t eliminate the virus completely, but tests have shown it reduces the count by about 99%. Maybe we should step up our spraying programme. I don’t know where to get hold of the eucalyptus-based spray, but hand sanitiser is available everywhere. Shouldn’t we be spraying the insides of our cars every time we go for a drive, spraying our shoes whenever we come home, and spraying our chairs before we sit down? If hand sanitizer kills the virus, let’s spray everything in sight. Maybe my farming friends should consider sanitising their sheep as well. Or at least taking their temperatures every time they come into the shearing shed? There may be a whole new industry out there waiting for a cadre to invest our tax money in it – producing face masks for sheep. Last Laugh An elderly Cape Town lady was visiting her nephew on his sheep farm in the Karoo. At the dinner table, she asked him: “How many sheep does it take to knit a long-sleeved jersey?” The farmer thought for a while and answered: “I have no idea, Aunty. “In all my years of farming I’ve never met a sheep that can knit.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.