Cape Town – A Crossroads mother, 52, who objected to the demolition of her daughter’s shack until she was also awarded a house at the N2 Gateway housing project, was refused entry into her new house after her shack was demolished by Housing Development Agency (HDA) officials. Nomvuyiseko Mhlabiso was allocated a house in the Old Crossroads N2 Gateway housing development. “I share a yard with my daughter who is also waiting to be allocated a house but when the officials came they told me that she was my tenant and that they were going to demolish both the structures and that we must move in together in my house. “I then refused because my daughter has a reference number and is also waiting for her house and should they demolish her shack now, that will complicate things when she has to move into her house,” she said. Mhlabiso said after her shack was demolished, she later found out that the official allocating houses had told the police she should not be allowed to enter the house. She said she was made to wait while crying and explaining and was eventually told to go back if she didn’t want her daughter’s structure to be demolished. The officials returned her damaged building materials before disappearing without erecting her structure. “I want to know what will happen to the house that was allocated in my name. My worry is that I will wait for many years to be allocated a house on top of the years I had waited, only because I refused to get my daughter’s shack demolished. I feel very sad to be evicted in a house before I could even set a foot in it and especially being made to sleep outside in the cold. They should not have demolished my structure if they knew that they were not going to give me a house,” she said. Community leader Mlungisi Noludwe said the HDA was politicising the allocation of houses in the area. Noludwe said there were other yards with two structures where both owners were on a waiting list. “We reported this matter to the HDA and the Human Settlements Department, however this was never attended to. We now want to expose the manner in which the elderly and other people are being treated. Corruption is a daily exercise here,” he said. HDA spokesperson Katlego Moselakgomo said Mhlabiso was the only beneficiary who was not relocated due to her refusal to comply with the relocation conditions. “The HDA notified the Provincial Department of Human Settlements (PDHS) of the refusal of Ms Mhlabiso to dismantle the additional structures. The PDHS informed that Ms Mhlabiso should not relocate if all three structures are not dismantled. This was communicated to Ms Mhlabiso and the Community Liaison Officer (CLO) of the project – who is a member of the community. The instruction to dismantle and relocate the beneficiary was made without the knowledge and approval of the PDHS and the HDA,” he said. Moselakgomo said the CLO, who is representing the community acted on his own accord and against all instructions received from the PDHS and the HDA by giving the relocation service providers a go-ahead to dismantle the structures and relocate the beneficiary. He said Mhlabiso’s structure (shack) was rebuilt in its original location and that the housing unit was vacant and ready to be occupied by Mhlabiso, pending she agrees all structures in her yard be dismantled on the day of relocation. Cape Argus