Cape Town - A 38-year-old man sustained second degree burns during a fire at JRE Transport’s factory in Parow on Monday. Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said an emergency call was received at 11.28am about a building alight in Selsdon Street, Beaconvale. Carelse said crews were dispatched from Epping, Bellville, Goodwood and Belhar, with 30 staff members. “A 38-year-old man sustained second degree burns to his leg and arm, and two trucks were destroyed. The fire was contained by 1.15pm and extinguished at 2.25pm.” The factory was established in 2014, according to the company website. It was listed as Barnes Vervoer PTY Ltd and traded as JRE Transport since 2003 and had four members. It now comprises only its chief executive, Quinton Barnes, and his son, John Barnes, as a managing director. The company focuses on recycling projects and educating, advising and promoting recycling to its clients to protect the environment. It also removes rubble from homes and businesses, and transports equipment between premises. When the Cape Argus contacted John jr, he said he was busy and could not talk. Quinton Barnes did not respond to media queries. The cause of the fire and the extent of the damage has yet to be determined. Parow ward councillor Franchesca Walker said she felt for the staff members who were hurt as well as for the owners who lost their business. “We’ve just started to get back into business after the lockdown and people started earning again. Now, many have lost an income,” Walker said. Wazi Stofberg, a broker at rental agency API Property Group Cape Town, servicing Parow, Goodwood and Elsies River, said that when the fire started in the area, he received calls from people who thought their premises may be affected. “I made calls and confirmed that it was not one of our properties,” Stofberg said. Emergency Medical and Forensic Pathology Services spokesperson Deanna Bessick said the health’s emergency medical services also responded to a call which involved the factory . The call came through to the EMS Communication Centre at 11:41 and an ambulance arrived on scene at 11:51, where five people were in the building and they were all accounted for. "The EMS paramedics transported a male patient who had sustained serious injuries to Tygerberg Hospital. The rest of the patients were unharmed and refused transport and medical assistance," Bessick said. Factory is on fire in Beaconvale, Parow, Cape Town.@IOL @TheCapeArgusVideo: Supplied pic.twitter.com/2s1H14K2BC Carelse said at this stage they have multiple fire crews on scene. The fire is still raging - and would give an update as soon as the fire is contained and the extent of the damages can be confirmed. @IOL @TheCapeArgus pic.twitter.com/HZ1DNFyBLK Cape Argus