Cape Town - Bonteheuwel residents came out in their numbers on Saturday morning to march in solidarity with the Young Lives Matter (YLM) campaign that is working to highlight issues faced by young people on a daily basis in the community. March organiser Donovan Nelson said that the purpose of the march was to highlight three important objectives of the YLM campaign in an effort to equip the youth of Bonteheuwel with information that they can use to reclaim their community from violent criminals. Nelson said: “The Young Lives Matter campaign is more than a lobbying protest group. It is a movement that will work to seek justice for the youth of Bonteheuwel and will work to recognise our voices within the community and give young people the power to speak and be in spaces that will allow us to positively contribute to our community’s safety, such as the CPF and neighbourhood watches. “The march was successful in the sense that we were able to visibly show our community that we can work together with law enforcement to bring about change. We wanted a show of support from our community as young people and we saw that on Saturday.” Ward councillor Angus McKenzie, who was one of the organisers of the march, said that listening to the painful stories and the needs and wants of the community was heartbreaking but also motivation to continue working hard to assist them. “It is critically important that we work on positively strengthening relationships with relevant stakeholders within our community. Community activism within Bonteheuwel has seen so much positive work being done and building healthy and better relationships with law enforcement is one of the ways we can continue to make Bonteheuwel well again,” McKenzie said. Bonteheuwel resident Praxcia Assur said the march was a chance to have the voice of her murdered son heard, and a chance to reach out to her peers in the community and warn them about the ill-effects of gangsterism. Assur, whose son was murdered just a few days after returning to the community for a visit last month, said that speaking out about the murder of her son brought her a sense of comfort as well as gave her the opportunity to encourage her peers to take heed of their own children’s actions outside their homes. “No parent gives birth to a gangster or a violent child. We all want the best for our children and doing the work to ensure that they become positive members of the community is a battle that we shouldn’t give up on. Too many children are dying in these streets. We need to be accountable as parents and continue to fight for our children so things can change for the better,” said Assur. Cape Argus