Cape Town - While once again collecting items to distribute to underprivileged children, the Santa Shoebox Project is aiming to reach its millionth child this year, and is calling on active citizens to support the initiative. The project, now in its 15th year, distributes donated essential items and treats to children, and is calling on the public to support the initiative. By participating in the inclusive project, donors and sponsors will be able to present thousands of personalised Christmas gifts to underprivileged children. This year, the children’s charity is looking forward to announcing that its millionth shoebox had been dropped off for its millionth recipient. Santa Shoebox chief executive Deborah Zelezniak said: “This year we will be celebrating the fact that we’ve made Christmas brighter for one million underprivileged children in South Africa. We hope that donors will help us achieve this momentous milestone by getting involved and pledging many more shoeboxes this year. “From the first of September, donors can log on to our website and start donating to the children. Donors can create a supporter profile, and are granted access to the children’s first name, age, gender and clothing size, so they can create personalised gifts for their selected children.” Zelezniak added that all items donated must be new and age-appropriate. The organisation is also encouraging donors to decorate the gift boxes cheerfully. Donors to the popular initiative will also be able to select beneficiaries from their neighbourhoods. The Santa Shoebox Project has made provision for community members to support their own communities, and donors need only register for a drop-off in their area - drop-offs will take place on specific dates in October and November. Zelezniak said: “The required contents of a Santa Shoebox have been chosen with the underprivileged child in mind. “We have a list of suggested items for donors to sponsor and the items include, a toothbrush and toothpaste, a face cloth and cake of soap as well as school supplies, not forgetting an outfit of clothing, some sweet treats, and of course a toy”. To help donors adhere to Covid-19 safety regulations, the project will also host virtual Santa Shoeboxes. which will be offered to donors who are unable to do their own shopping, packing and drop off the goods. “We want to reach children living in rural areas, where there are not so many donors,” said Zelezniak. Cape Argus