Cape Town - Heinz Park informal settlement residents in Philippi switched their lights on for the first time on Thursday after the City provided electricity to the area. The City of Cape Town's R686 000 project consisted of 36 connections, benefiting 36 families. City’s mayoral committee member for energy and climate change Phindile Maxiti celebrated with residents as they switched on electricity to their homes. Ward Councillor Patrick Ngqu said the project came after the area had experienced shack fires that resulted in four people losing their lives. “After realisng that people were losing their lives in fire-elated incidents, especially during the winter when they use fireto cook and to keep warm, we could not ignore their pleas. "The project was originally meant to be rolled out in April but due to the pandemic it was delayed and we are glad that we have finally concluded it,” he said. Ngqu said residents were extremely happy and had vowed not to make any illegal connections or steal electricity. “The area has been without electricity for the longest time so I doubt they would do anything to jeopardize this, or do anything illegal that would make the City take the electricity from them,” he said. Ngqu said the community had also requested that street lights be erected. He said the streets lights might have been overlooked during the planning stages and confirmed that they will be erected in due course. Maxiti said the City was pleased with the progress that has been made to connect the households to electricity. “This immediately enables living conditions to be improved and opens new doors for learning as learners do not have to do school work by candle or lamp light. It also enhances safety and enables households to move away from dangerous open flames for lighting. “Electricity is also a driver of economic opportunity and progress and we will continue to do everything in our power to create an enabling environment for economic growth for our residents,” said Maxiti. Maxiti said in City-supplied areas and on City-owned land, almost all informal settlements in the metro have been connected to electricity, where it has been possible to do so. Cape Argus