by Joshua van Cuyck The Covid-19 storm arrived without warning and has left our government in a scramble to uphold the already-struggling health-care system. Our leadership has not been left alone to fend in the frenzy though, as epidemiology and data science provides a window through which we can observe the devastating effects inside a silicon-driven simulation. I thought it would be interesting to open this window, tinker with potential scenarios, and discover the most effective solutions to a seemingly impossible problem: how do we flatten the curve? The rules are simple and are based on the SIR (Susceptible, Infected and Recovered) model. There are those who are susceptible, those who are infected and those who have recovered. For every unit of time spent within a certain radius of an infected individual, there is some probability of contracting the virus. In epidemiology, the basic reproductive number, denoted by R0, represents the expected number of cases generated by a single case, in an environment where the entire population is susceptible to infection. Without preventative techniques, R0 sits at about 3.4 in this simulation. Halving the probability of infection has the effect of halving R0. This seems intuitive but, upon implementing a central place – simulating a local grocery store – and experimenting with infection radii, decreasing the probability of visiting the store by a factor of 5 has an identical effect. This is useful information and shows us that the effect of hygiene-consciousness is 2.5 times greater than the routine-altering and socially frustrating technique of reducing consumer market availability. Instead of limiting the use of meeting locations, implementing a mandatory hand sanitiser would have a greater effect without hindering productivity. Upon simulating the effect of social distancing and its inevitable dismissal, it was observed that immediate social distancing across 100% of the population eradicates the virus at a rate around 10 times faster than without any other measures. This puts less pressure on the public health care system and is the most effective eradication technique. Immediate social distancing across 70% if the population flattens the curve but prolongs the duration. This is where the problem lies. In this circumstance, R0 is less than one, indicating that the spread of the virus is no longer exponential and daily infections are on the decline. Governments may be pressured and inclined to drop social distancing regulations. Simulating this proves to have the devastating effect of a second exponential wave of infections. Real epidemiology takes into account contact-tracing and isolation, as well as travel between communities. Although the results produced by the limited number of rules applied to this simulation were useful, it is impossible to simulate the real-world effect of different techniques, as well as the effectiveness of different techniques working in unison. We are lucky to be facing such a pandemic during an exciting boom in data science and technology, and it is interesting to observe what the silicon chip can do for us when presented with an environment with the properties of nature. I am delighted to uncover some of the secrets to flattening the curve. * Joshua van Cuyck is high school pupil attending Somerset College and and hopes to study computer science. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.