Cape Town - Over 2 300 individuals have been registered in need of basic necessities after 400 dwellings were engulfed in a fire in Imizamo Yethu. Thula Thula Hout Bay volunteer Casey Dolan said registration was continuing and once done the distribution of essentials will be done in the local hall while adherence to physical distancing protocols is monitored. “The number is large but fortunately we are well equipped to register and distribute on site. Groceries are the most important aspect to distribute. The families are also in need of basic household goods, blankets, hygiene products and second-hand clothing. Anyone willing to donate can do so by contacting the organisation directly,” Dolan said. Ali Sablay from Gift of the Givers said people were thirsty and hungry and no one had assisted them. “We fed over 1 000 people last (Sunday) night and provided each with a healthy meal and water. Our teams are again at the site today (yesterday) delivering nappies and meals. “The main requirements are disposable nappies for babies and hygiene products. We will be working with relevant community players to work out a way forward,” he said. Ward Councillor Roberto Quintas said the electricity department was working toward restoring all legal connections as soon as possible. “Disaster Risk Management (DRM) has already engaged Sassa and is awaiting their response. DRM has also begun approaching corporate sponsors to assist with necessary items. I am grateful for the speedy response by services; more so that it appears no one has suffered injury or loss of life,” he said. Quintas said the cause of the fire was still unknown. The City said its Disaster Risk Management, Solid Waste and Informal Settlements Management teams have been providing assistance to those affected. “The terrain is very steep and rocky and difficult to work in. The debris is therefore being removed by hand and carried down the mountain to be loaded on to the trucks that will cart it away. “Needless to say, this will take some time to complete.” Cape Argus