Cape Town - The death of Ebrahim Carelse, an innocent bystander who was killed by the police at the height of the Struggle in 1985, was commemorated at the Mowbray Muslim Cemetery on Thursday. Many people were killed during the freedom struggle and during the 1985 state of emergency the regime enforced. Carelse’s death was the tipping point for many people, activists and leaders, at the time. Carelse’s wife and three children were also present at the commemoration at the burial site in Salt River. Salt River Heritage Society Founder Anwar Omar said: “The brutality of the apartheid regime under the State of Emergency was laid bare for the whole world to witness. After the brutal murder of Ebrahim Carelse, the protest against the apartheid regime escalated and intensified, culminating in the Trojan Horse Massacre a month thereafter in Thornton Road, Belgravia, where members of the security forces shot and killed three young people who were part of anti-government demonstrations.” His death was symbolic in that it precipitated a spontaneous outpouring of anger, grief and solidarity at his funeral. More than 10  000 people attended his funeral despite the strict State of Emergency regulations prohibiting public gatherings. Leaders from across the political spectrum came together in solidarity to lead the funeral procession, and it indirectly served to consolidate the anti-apartheid movement further. Carelse’s widow, Jawaya Carelse, said: “I was 29 years old when my husband told me he was going opposite the road in Burns Road, Salt River, to visit his friend who was leaving on Hajj. Soon after he left the house, we heard a gunshot. He was shot in the back of his head by a police officer.” She said the officer who shot him came across as a very rude person. She did not know if he was still alive today, but he had been released as a free man from the case. “I would like to see justice in society. The justice I also want is for myself to be settled and my children to be happy. I still appreciate him as the father of my three beautiful children.” Claremont Main Road Mosque Imam Rashied Omar said: “Today’s ceremony is about someone’s life that was taken unjustly. “We pray for thousands of unsung heroes and heroines who went through the Struggle to allow our current freedom and democracy.” Cape Argus