Cape Town - Volunteers were out in their numbers this weekend to pick up waste along the Milnerton and Lagoon beaches in commemoration of International Coastal Clean-Up Day, which is held during this month. Coca-Cola Peninsula Beverages (CCPB) hosted the clean-up where almost 100 people participated. CCPB public affairs and communications manager, Priscilla Urquhart, said: “There has been a fair amount of waste on the beach and this is largely due to the lockdown and not being able to engage in clean-up activities. As we head into warmer months, the influx of people going to the beach is likely to lead to a noticeable increase in litter.” She said International Coastal Clean-up Day was a reminder for everyone to play their part in protecting the oceans and shorelines. She said it was important that everyone continued to protect the environment through recycling as well as disposing  of any rubbish that they came across. Waste was picked up between the Milnerton Surf Lifesaving Club and Lagoon beach.  More than 50 bags of waste were collected. The waste included general litter, plastic crates and items washed ashore from passing cargo ships in the bay. There were also lollipop sticks, cigarette butts, polystyrene food packaging and beverage bottles. Urquhart said: “While these clean-ups may not solve the full challenge we face with polluted oceans and shorelines, they are an opportunity to educate and raise awareness of the impact that waste has on the environment. It is also a catalyst to change behaviour and get the youth, especially school-going children, to be mindful of the detrimental effect of waste.” She said the international commemoration serves to "remind us of one’s role in making a difference, however people should be taking care of the environment everyday through responsible behaviour and actions". There is a series of clean-ups planned to take place along Hermanus and up to Saldanha Bay, including community clean-ups in various waste hot spots. Another event is planned for October, just before schools close  for the term and a few schools will be invited to participate. The public can register on the  CCPB’s Facebook page. Cape Argus