Cape Town - About 800 people were left displaced in Imizamo Yethu after a massive fire erupted in the early hours of Sunday morning, destroying more than 200 structures. City Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said rescue services responded at 2.18am to informal structures alight in Molokoane Street. “Hout Bay firefighters responded, but called upon more resources as the swirling wind was creating havoc. Firefighters from 14 different fire stations, with a total of 20 firefighting appliances and approximately 80 staff members, battled the blaze. The fire was extinguished at 11.48am. One firefighter was treated for smoke inhalation. Hundreds of people are displaced and an assessment is still ongoing.” Community leader Samkelo Krweqe, whose home was also destroyed, said they were told that the fire was allegedly started by a drunk man either cooking or warming food. “By the time I woke up community members had already apprehended him and were beating him but after I intervened he fled. We cannot punish someone for an honest mistake and killing him will not bring any justice, or undo the damage done,” he said. Krweqe said the victims were going to use community halls, with priority given to women and children and other available accommodation for men. “The community is in need of food, clothes and blankets as everything was destroyed in the fire.” Hout Bay ward councillor Roberto Quintas said there were no reports of fatalities as yet, “for which we are grateful”. “The Disaster Risk Management (DRM) team will be ascertaining this morning the scope of work required from other services, including Solid Waste that will assist in cleansing and removal of debris, and Informal Settlements (ISM) that will be issuing fire kits to rebuild as soon as possible.” Quintas said the DRM will also engage with NGOs and Sassa in terms of disaster relief items. “My thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this devastating loss, those who battled the blaze and those working around the clock to ensure as much relief as soon as possible.” In a separate incident three people died in an informal structure fire in Ceba Street, Makhaza. Three people escaped the fire.