Cape Town – The Western Cape government has announced it will be appealing the Tafelberg site judgment that was delivered two weeks ago. The provincial cabinet said it would be applying for leave to appeal at the Supreme Court of Appeal. In a joint statement by Premier Alan Winde and Transport and Public Works MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela they have indicated the Phyllis Jowell Jewish Day School have indicated they do not intend to pursue their rights under the contract of sale any further. The property has been returned to the provincial government. “Its return to our portfolio will give us the opportunity to reconsider its future use in light of the priorities of this new administration, and I am grateful to the board of Phyllis Jowell Jewish Day School for informing us of their decision in this regard and which will allow its use to be considered afresh. "On this point, I want to make clear that the Western Cape government is absolutely committed to achieving spatial redress,” the statement said. The province said the decision by no means affected its commitment to continue and even ramp up their efforts to address the spatial inequalities of the past, by providing affordable, well-located housing across the province. Housing activists have campaigned for the site to be used for affordable social housing. The high court found the City and the provincial government had failed in their constitutional mandate to address apartheid spatial planning by selling the site to the Phyllis Jowell Jewish Day School for R135 million. Judges Patrick Gamble and Monde Samela ruled the regulations used to justify the sale were unconstitutional and invalid. The court issued an order stating the City and the provincial government were in breach of their constitutional obligations to advance access to affordable housing. Province said the findings of the court in this regard impacted on the Western Cape government’s core functions going forward including: Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication. IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.