by David Biggs I was intrigued by a suggestion by fellow columnist Alex Tabisher in a recent edition of this newspaper. Writing about the growing problem of gender-based violence in this country, he says the greatest failure in our country is not economic, but a “toothless judicial system”. How very true. Politically connected people seem to have no regard for the law, and even when found guilty of serious crimes and sentenced to long prison terms, they are released after a short “token” time in jail. They are greeted like heroes by admiring supporters when they leave prison. When blatant corruption is uncovered, the worst that happens is that a commission is appointed to “look into” the matter,and we never hear about it again. Or a court appearance is set for “April 2021”, by which time the whole matter has been forgotten. What most people want is to see criminals punished swiftly and effectively. The punishment needs to make the offender ashamed and embarrassed. Heavy fines don’t do that, prison sentences are no punishment for many — free board and lodging for a while and then back home to continue your life of violence and abuse. Alex suggests the pillory. You may laugh. It’s a comical medieval form of punishment. But think about it. The perpetrator, found guilty of child abuse or gender-based violence, is taken into a public square and set up in a highly undignified position, probably with a sign round his neck saying “rapist,” angry women can throw rotten eggs or vrot tomatoes at him to express their disgust and point out what a despicable human being he is. He won’t want that to happen again! The pillory. It’s not cruel or vicious like a whipping.The death penalty is no longer allowed. But the pillory is simply an effective way of imposing well-deserved public humiliation. The criminal is publicly shamed, it’s all over after one day and it costs the taxpayer nothing. It should cost less than R1 000 to build a good pillory. Unless, of course, it is put out to public tender, in which case it would cost taxpayers more than R3 billion, most of which would end up in a corrupt politicians’ pocket. Come to think of it, some of our politicians would look quite good in a pillory. Last Laugh: A lawyer died and arrived at the Pearly Gates, where St Peter greeted him and said: “We have your wheelchair ready for you, sir.” “Why would I need a wheelchair?” asked the lawyer. “We’ve kept track of your career,” said the saint, “and according to the number of hours for which you’ve billed your clients. you must be at least 147 years old.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.