Cape Town - A fifteen-year-old boy from Manenberg went missing in the surf on Sunday while swimming with family members at Melkbosstrand. His disappearance came as thousands of families flocked to the city’s beaches and swimming pools ahead of the New Year weekend. National Sea Rescue Institute spokesperson Craig Lambinon said three sea rescue craft were launched to join in the search and lifeguards were deployed into the surfline to conduct sweeping line-free dive search efforts. However, despite an extensive air, sea and shoreline search, there was no sign of the teenager, he said. A police dive unit was tasked to continue the search and they will be assisted by services that are on duty in the area. Meanwhile, Hout Bay community activist Roscoe Jacobs complained that beachgoers in the area were not complying with general Covid-19 safety protocols. The lack of City law enforcement officers had exacerbated the situation. Jacobs said this was concerning as beaches could become “super-spreader” locations if the regulations were not observed. At the weekend, pictures circulating on social media said to be taken at the Sea Point Pavilion swimming pool showed overcrowding and no physical distancing. Mayco member for health and community services Zahid Badroodien said he was aware of these fake photos. Badroodien said the capacity of the pool was 250 people and that the pictures of long queues with little or no social distancing were not recent photos. "The Sea Point CID trailers were not placed in the vicinity as indicated by the original post sharing these false stories. We have a full team of officials on hand to assist with social distancing and enforcing the necessary Covid-19 precautions," he said. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said during his site visit to Strandfontein, the Sea Point Pavilion swimming pool and Muizenberg beaches he was extremely pleased that the public were complying with the regulations, especially against the backdrop of the call for the national government to close beaches in the Western Cape. Cape Argus