Cape Town - The Western Cape Department of Human Settlements delivered 16 217 housing opportunities out of a target of 16 859 in the 2019/20 financial year and conducted research into the viability of rent to buy schemes, according to the department’s annual report. The research showed that in many cases these projects collapsed, often due to buyer non-payment and that units were never transferred to beneficiaries. Many remain in disrepair in government ownership, according to the annual report presented to the standing committee on Friday. To ensure that beneficiaries become full owners of their houses, the department delivered 8 491 title deeds against a target of 7 000. Human Settlements MEC Tertuis Simmers said: “The reason for this slight underperformance for housing units is due to delayed installation of water meters and connections to the power grid. “Without these matters finalised, completion certificates could not be signed off. In terms of serviced sites, services could not be installed on some sites, as community members refused to be relocated,” said Simmers. Committee member Brett Herron (Good Party) wanted to know whether the department can subsidise instalment sale agreements and at what stage of the process this kicks in. Head of Department Jacqui Samson said: “Nobody may sell a house bought using a subsidy from the government for eight years without permission from the department which has a set of criteria to determine when exemptions can be made.” Committee member Andricus Van Der Westhuizen (DA) said: “My impression is that there is still a huge backlog in terms of title deed transfers. What is the extent of the backlog? What is the future of the project particularly taking into account other information that this budget will not be given to us indefinitely?” Director of land asset management Roy Stewart said: “In terms of the title deed backlog, we currently have a backlog in terms of our reporting of 58 000 that we have assessed. Since the programme started we’ve handed over approximately 42 000 title deeds.” Chief director management support Francois De Wet said: “This project will not stop, the funding will now come from Opscap, the operational-funding programme that provides provincial governments with a mechanism for the reservation of a certain percentage of the annual housing funding.” Cape Argus