by Koert Meyer Nowadays one often sees two opposition parties appropriate themselves the terms “shadow government”, “government-in-waiting” and their MECs in the Western Cape as “ministers”. Firstly, as far as we know, ours is not a federal system like the USA where each of their 50 states are at liberty to even apply the death penalty. In the old pre-democracy era before 1994 there were four provinces, and they were referred to as administrations. Our older folk will remember everything from pencils at school or hospital linen were stamped with the CPA/KPA brand, which  meant the Cape Provincial Administration. There are now also provinces, nine of them, and it seems it’s only the Western Cape that prefers to confuse its citizens by throwing around these wrong, deceitful terms. Their MECs are also not ministers. We can never pretend to be a regional or even a parallel government. A country can have only one government. There is now even further confusion and these two parties are tight-lipped about it when small rebel groups openly agitate for a secessionist Western Cape that will hopefully break away from the elected national government to govern itself. As one of the country’s foremost anti-death penalty activists I can foresee behind this a grave danger of calls for its reinstatement to increase dramatically. Even if these misguided trends should succeed they will never ever be able to deliver such a pipe-dream.  They should rather reflect as to how they will be able to execute more than 21 000 murderers each year, if they are all caught and convicted. What about the large number of rapists, drunk drivers, armed robbers, gangsters and now terrorists threatening our neighbours and eventually us? We’ve had six national elections already and the largest opposition party could so far only muster 20% of the vote and is now disintegrating rapidly; the other with its reckless vote-catching strategy should never be allowed to destroy our hard-fought democracy. The terms “shadow this, shadow that” only makes sense when an opposition party comes close to the 50% margin to unseat the ruling government, as in established democracies like the USA and the UK. In our case it may only happen in. 2120. One can fool some of the people some of the times, but one cannot fool all the people all of the time. * Koert Meyer, Welgelegen. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.