by Kenneth M Alexander So, some beaches are closed due to the second Covid “wave”. Does anyone really know what it entails? Let’s look at a real scenario like the holiday town of Mossel Bay with the popular Die Bakke chalets and The Point caravan park camping sites. Both line the waters edge. What exactly is permissible? The very same holidaymakers camping next to each other and interacting freely cannot cross the road to catch a wave or let an over-excited child from inland wet his or her feet in the pool? There are also vehicle parking bays overlooking the sea. Would one be allowed to sit in a car and stare at the water as a consolation? Be reminded that a parking bay width of 2,5m means that your windows must remain close to maintain the advised social gap. I assume that the ban on beaches includes the sand as well. In Die Bakke, there is a restaurant smack bang in the sand with access ways to the beach. Suddenly, all sorts of headaches seem to pop up. Will private motorised boats be allowed in the water as it would not infringe on social distancing? The list can go on and on but to end has anyone thought of the poor who depend on their daily trip to the sea to put food on the table? It is great to keep the people off the beaches, but the same influx of visitors are in the shops. Surely this will cause chaos as people will be herded to flood the shops for entertainment. Generally speaking, the beaches in Mossel Bay can accommodate the locals with social distancing. The problem is therefore not the locals but the visitors, so why must the locals be punished? We should not “lock” the beaches but rather lock the N2. * Kenneth M Alexander, Athlone. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).