Cape Town - The police arrested a 14-year-old boy along with two accomplices for hijacking and robbing an e-hailing driver in Browns Farm, Philippi. According to a police statement the three suspects had requested a ride on the e-hailing platform with the intention of robbing and hijacking the driver once he arrived at Browns Farm. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said: “When the driver arrived they hijacked his vehicle and robbed him of his cellphone. The vehicle was found parked at a residence in Vukuthu Street in Browns Farm. One suspect was arrested and further questioning led to the arrest of the other two accomplices.” All three suspects are scheduled to appear at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court once charged. Also in Browns Farm, the police arrested a 17-year-old suspect on Monday night after they found him in possession of an unlicensed firearm. The suspect was apprehended by a police patrol that was responding to gunshots at a residence in Mlonji Street . “Police patrolling the area rushed to a residence in Mlonji Street after they heard gunshots being fired. As they were approaching one of the two suspects who was armed came out of the house, pointed a firearm at police and fired a shot. The suspect then dropped the firearm he was carrying and tried to hide. Police fired back and arrested the 17-year-old suspect for the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. “Further investigation revealed that the suspect and his accomplice had just robbed the house occupant and his friend when the police heard the gunshots. The suspects had met with the two victims while they were walking in Mlonji Street and forced them into the yard, before proceeding to search and rob them,” said Van Wyk. In a separate incident the police arrested two suspects in Camps Bay on charges of possession with the intent to deal in narcotics. Van Wyk said that the suspects were arrested at Brighton Court after the premises were monitored over a period of time on suspicion that one of the suspects had been dealing in drugs with the intention to distribute. “We suspect that one of the suspects might be linked to a farm in Stellenbosch where he cultivates dagga. The second suspect was also arrested when officers gained entry to the flat where drugs estimated to be worth R250 000 were confiscated,” said Van Wyk. Cape Argus