Cape Town – President Cyril Ramaphosa implored South Africans to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols, and keep their distance as the second wave of the pandemic surged across the country. Appearing on TV last night, 11 days after his last appearance, he announced the closing of beaches in the Eastern Cape, along the Garden Route and on some of the busiest days in KwaZulu-Natal. The Garden Route and Sarah Baartman District Municipality now join the Nelson Mandela Bay as Covid-19 hotspots, with additional restrictions including the sale of alcohol. Visibly exhausted, and with his voice strained, Ramaphosa said in his last address of the year to the nation, South Africa had gone from 4 400 new infections to almost 8 000 on Monday. This had brought the total number of coronavirus infections to 866 127 which were a cause for great concern. "There can no longer be any doubt – the country has entered a second wave of coronavirus infections. "Given the rate at which new cases have grown over the last two weeks, there is every possibility that if we do not act urgently and if we do not act together, the second wave will be more severe than the first wave," warned Ramaphosa. He said the daily average of new cases, over the past seven days was 74% higher than the previous seven days. This meant that new cases had increased from around 3 800 daily to over 6 600 a day. "The daily average of Covid-19 deaths has increased by nearly 50% over the same period from just over 100 deaths a day to just over 150 deaths," said Ramaphosa. He said the four provinces leading the second wave were: Eastern Cape, Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng with most of the new infections being among the youth between the ages of 15 and 19. “The relatively low rates of infection over the last few months have made us more relaxed about wearing a mask over our nose and mouth every time we go out in public," said Ramaphosa. Taking a sombre tone, Ramaphosa said unless things were done differently, this would be the last Christmas for many South Africans. For this reason, he said it was essential for extraordinary measures to contain the second wave, "to save lives, while working to protect livelihoods". Ramaphosa said Cabinet have deliberated extensively with the National Coronavirus Command Council and the President’s Coordinating Council. These meetings have prompted Cabinet to recommend further restrictions to halt the spread of the coronavirus. Ramaphosa said there will stricter enforcement of level 1 restrictions throughout South Africa during the festive season and beyond. Drivers and operators of public transport vehicles will be required to ensure that all their passengers wear masks. This rule will also apply for the owners and managers of buildings like shopping centres and government offices. "This places a responsibility on all owners, managers and employers – and on all of us – to ensure that South Africans are safe whenever they are in any of these places," said Ramaphosa. He said those who failed to ensure compliance will be liable to a fine, or imprisonment of up to six months. Ramaphosa said his government would be taking measures to reduce the risk of "super-spreading events", specifically citing the Matric Rage in Ballito, KwaZulu-Natal which authorities blamed for 1000 infections. For this reason, Ramaphosa said gatherings – including religious gatherings – may not be attended by more than 100 people for indoor events and 250 for outdoor events. "At all times, and particularly in smaller venues, the total number of people in a venue may not exceed more than 50% of the capacity of the venue," said Ramaphosa. All "after-tears" funeral parties have also been banned. But registered wineries and wine farms have been handed a reprieve, and can offer tastings and wine sales to the public for off-consumption over weekends. Ramaphosa said over 38 000 health workers in the public sector have tested positive for Covid-19, but only 5 000 of them have had to be hospitalised. "Sadly, 391 health workers in the public sector have passed away," said Ramaphosa. He said South Africa had concluded the necessary processes to ensure that it had access life-saving vaccines, through the facilitation of the World Health Organisation. "As part of this facility, it is expected that South Africa will receive initial vaccines to cover 10% of our population in the early part of next year," said Ramaphosa. Cape Argus