Cape Town - Two officials have been left traumatised after one of them was hit in the chest by a  bullet fired through the window of an ambulance that came under attack. Luckily the paramedic was wearing a bulletproof vest. The incident took place in Beacon Valley, Mitchells Plain, on Tuesday. Emergency Medical and Forensic Pathology Services spokesperson Deanna Bessick said at the time of the incident the paramedics were dispatched to assist a patient. As they stopped at the patient’s home, an alleged suspect ran towards the ambulance and a bullet hit one of the paramedics in the chest. Bessick said fortunately, he was wearing a bulletproof vest which saved his life. "There were no injuries, besides the bruising that was left behind in the area where the bullet hit." She said the paramedic was severely traumatised and has been for counselling. Police spokesperson Andrè Traut said a case of attempted murder was registered at Mitchells Plain police station after the complainant, a 46 year old male ambulance driver, reported the incident. Traut said the ambulance was at the corner of Imperial and Palestrina Roads when an unknown male ran towards them, pulled out a firearm from his waist and fired a shot through the driver’s side window. "The unknown suspect managed to flee the scene. No persons have been arrested," he said. Bessick said the paramedic was previously stabbed in the back with a knife in the same area where he and his colleagues render an essential service. She said he was one of the members of the Tafelsig project consisting of a dedicated vehicle and crew that was implemented more than a year ago. "The objective of the project was to service the Beacon Valley and Tafelsig communities with an improved service delivery system, with the buy-in from the community," Bessick said. Safety and Security Mayco member JP Smith said the attacks on first responders were the work of cowards and criminals. Communities needed to step up and not only condemn these acts, but also report the perpetrators. Smith said the City's firefighters were also attacked when they responded to an informal structure fire in Khayelitsha over the weekend. "Their jobs are made more difficult when they come under attack from the very communities they are trying to save." Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact D/Sgt. Angus November of Mitchells Plain CID at 021 3701782. Cape Argus