Cape Town - Shosholoza Meyl passengers have complained of being stranded in Klerksdorp en-route from Cape Town to Johannesburg without explanation. The United National Transport Union (Untu) said it was furious with the inability of Mainline Passenger Services (MLPS), the operator of the long distance Shosholoza Meyl train, to have a contingency plan in place when it's trains continued to be delayed. This after the train was stranded at Klerksdorp earlier this week, with the Untu's general secretary Steve Harris alleging that staff and commuters were left stranded with dry taps. Harris said to adhere to Covid-19 regulations, the MLPS management decided not to allow the selling of food or drinks on the train. Passengers were informed that they needed to provide those for themselves when they bought train tickets. “The train trip was long and passengers and staff had no food and drinks left. Even the water taps in the coaches ran dry. Passengers became furious and they started threatening the staff on the train who were stuck in the same predicament," Harris said. United Commuters Voice (UCV) spokesperson João Jardim said the UCV feeels vindicated because of earlier warnings but also saddened by the latest mishap at Shosholoza Meyl. "We cannot believe that the same mistakes are being repeated and again nothing will come of it. The commuters and staff will bear the brunt and the management will be compensated with a performance bonus," said Jardim. He said UCV would be taking the matter on review and demand that commuters be paid their monies back and staff compensated; and management to be charged accordingly. Harris said the train's ordeal created an extremely dangerous situation amid the deadly pandemic. “The Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) wants to impress Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula, but that is no use if incidents like these happen, contradicting the promise of delivering a safe and reliable service. The MLPS needs to go back to the drawing board,” Harris said. Prasa spokesperson Makhosini Mgitywa said since the resumption of the Shosholoza Meyl service at the end of November, Prasa has been plagued by cable theft and power failures, which have hampered the departure and arrival times. Mgitywa said the delays have affected the supply of water and maintenance of ablution facilities inside the trains. "As a result of these delays, going forward, Prasa will be providing customers with bottled water. Buses will continue to be deployed where delays are two hours or longer," he said. He apologised for the delays, saying they would continue to endeavour to ensure customers are kept informed where train delays were experienced. Cape Argus