by Hosia Sithole Thursday the 10 December, marks the end of 16 Days of Activism for the No Violence against Women and Children (GBV) campaign and coincides with the International Human Rights Day proclaimed by the UN, to bring to the attention “of the peoples of the world” the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard for all people and all nations. International Human Rights Day continues the rallying cry of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence campaign by emphasising that abuse is a violation of human rights. Observing International Human Rights Day is to heighten efforts to end the heinous crimes committed against women and children. It is an attempt to deal with the depravity of men towards women as objects on which to vent their frustrations. This year’s campaign took place while the country was reeling from shock after women were raped and killed in uMthwalume, KwaZulu-Natal. It was thought that the horrendous crimes would wake the conscience of would-be rapists and killers of women and children and get them to stop. Our culture of human rights is in tatters, so much so that even those working to end the scourge of women and child abuse are left wondering if there will ever be a day when we put these violent acts behind us. It is our collective hope that they never reach a point where they give up the fight on behalf of the silent voices. And, for them to keep on fighting for this powerless section of our society, they require the support of every member of society. This is especially so for men who are the perpetrators of these cowardly and insidious crimes. Relegating crimes perpetrated against women and children as merely a crime like any other is to be complicit in acts that place their lives at stake. The commission of crimes against women and children cannot be equated to any other crime. It targets those who have been vulnerable for decades. It seeks to suppress and hide their voices, so that their cries should not escape the walls of their homes. It is a crime that should be swept under the carpet and not meet the full glare of society. The wilful acts of brutality that silence women and children must be met with equally wilful measures by communities and the law. It cannot be that cruel men continue to enjoy the protection of society while women and children are exposed and suffer the consequences of these vicious men. One of the ways of making sure that women are freed from the shackles of abuse is for them to be able to eke out a living on their own. They should be able to be financially independent and stand on their own. Some men believe women should be their punching bags, because they are the ones who support them financially. Withdrawing their financial support would ruin women and their children. Thus, the Women in Constructions Summit last month, organised by the Minister of Human Settlements, Water and Sanitation, Lindiwe Sisulu, was aimed at unlocking the value chain to allow broader participation of women in human settlements, water and sanitation projects and programmes. Minister Sisulu said November 2020 should be marked as the beginning of a new era for women in construction where emerging female contractors are supported to rise and succeed. However, Minister Sisulu noted that although significant progress had been made, there were many more women who have been left behind. It is in this spirit that human rights should be promoted through creating opportunities for women from all walks, in order to chart a way forward to build their lives and that of their families. A society that is silent on human rights abuses, especially against women and children, is a hopeless one. * Hosia Sithole, communicator in the Department of Water and Sanitation. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.