Cape Town – Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz has confirmed that accredited neighbourhood watches (NHW) may patrol under the adjusted level 3 lockdown regulations. Fritz called on the chairpersons of NHWs accredited with the Department of Community Safety, to enquire with the department’s unit to issue new permits to operate during curfew hours between 9pm and 6am. “After consultation with SAPS legal services, SAPS in the Western Cape confirmed that under the Adjusted Alert Level 3 Regulations that NHWs can function, provided all relevant protocols are adhered to. “To do so, NHWs must be issued with permits and on their person at all times whilst performing duties,” Fritz said. He said the department received the permit template which will be used to issue permits to accredited NHWs. “The previously issued permits are however no longer valid as the Regulation, as promulgated in Government Gazette no 11217 dated 29 December, has changed. “The new Regulation in terms of Movement of persons is Regulation 33(1) (b) read with Regulation 82(1) (b),” Fritz said. “NHWs can continue to utilise the permit as provided by the Department of Community Safety to patrol. “It is essential that NHWs continue to patrol during the curfew hours as we know that these are the times in which crimes such as robberies and burglaries take place.” The City of Cape Town has also welcomed the announcement that NHWs can operate. “This is good news for the many dedicated organisations and individuals who give their time and effort to help keep their communities safe, particularly during this critical time in our efforts to ensure compliance with the Covid-19 protocols and regulations. “I encourage organisations to contact the Western Cape Department of Community Safety so that they may secure their permits to operate,” said Mayco member for safety and security, JP Smith. Fritz said NHW members were urged to take every precaution necessary to protect themselves against infection and transmission of Covid-19. “This includes taking practical steps such as ensuring patrol vehicles do not transport more than the prescribed number of passengers, ensure that patrollers wear masks correctly and sanitise regularly, and maintain a safe social distance while out on patrol.” Fritz said should people have questions on whether NHW structures can operate or on obtaining permits for members of accredited NHWs they may contact the Department of Community Safety’s NHW unit by emailing Neighbourhood.Watch@westerncape.gov.za. Cape Argus