Cape Town – Cape residents have been called on to be hyper-vigilant for sightings of medical waste which might be dumped by criminals after a transport vehicle was hijacked last Friday. The waste was stolen on Friday afternoon, when an Averda health-care waste removal vehicle was hijacked by four armed men in Khayelitsha. The truck was transporting waste from local clinics to a specialist medical waste treatment facility at Killarney Gardens at the time. The driver, who was held at gunpoint, was eventually released unhurt and is receiving support, including counselling. Efforts are continuing to track the vehicle and its contents, and a private security company has been combing the area. “We urge members of the public to report any sightings of the boxes and/or bags to SAPS, and strongly advise people to not touch or open the boxes,” said Averda’s representative, Marika Human. “We have a team on standby ready to collect and safely dispose of the waste when it is located.” Health-care risk waste is carefully regulated and must be destroyed or disinfected at specialist treatment facilities. Two types of health-care risk waste had been collected on the day and are now missing, said Averda: Human said the waste did not contain any anatomical parts or pharmaceuticals, but again stressed the dangers posed to people. “The infectious waste was transported inside clearly marked and regulated containers, and they contain pathogens that could potentially be harmful to the public, (but) the sharps is our biggest concern at this stage.” The incident has been reported to SAPS and the provincial and national Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries, who are responsible for waste management and the clinics involved. SAPS spokesperson Andrè Traut confirmed the incident, adding that the vehicle was hijacked in Cekeca Street Harare. “The circumstances are being investigated and the suspects are yet to be arrested. The hijacked vehicle is still being sought and any person with information is kindly requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.” Local waste management facilities have also been advised to be on the lookout for the missing waste. Members of the public who have any information about the incident or the missing material must please contact the Averda call centre 086 128 3732. Cape Argus