Cape Town - UCT student Tabeth Masengu  became the first student to become a recipient of a joint PhD after she successfully argued her thesis during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic on a Zoom call with Ghent University in Belgium. In a statement, UCT said it welcomed the achievement by one of its students, Zambian born Masengu, who was recently awarded a joint PhD in Law with Ghent University in Belgium, a first for the internationally recognised university. UCT said Masengu’s examiners unanimously agreed to award her the doctorate without making any corrections, after she impressively defended her thesis that examined various issues in relation to  women judges and judicial appointments in Zambia and South Africa. Masengu, who was inspired by the OJ Simpson trial to pursue law, said she was glad she had defied naysayers who told her that undertaking a straight Bachelor of Law (LLB) at Rhodes University would be too difficult for her. “It was probably the first time that I realised how I disliked being told that I was not capable of doing something. I worked hard and of the five people who graduated with distinctions in my year, I was the only one with a straight LLB,” said Masengu. After obtaining her LLB at Rhodes, Masengu completed her articles at a law firm in Pietermaritzburg, where she fell in love with human rights advocacy. “I saw how people who came to the firm needed help but could not afford it. As soon as I completed my articles, I left,” she said. Having completed her articles, Masengu proceeded to study for her Master’s in Human Rights Law at the London School of Economics and Political Science and graduated cum laude in 2011. Master’s in hand, Masengu returned to Cape Town and began working as a researcher at the Democratic Governance and Rights Unit at UCT, where she met mentor and friend Professor Caroline Ncube. Masengu succeeded in registering for a joint doctorate. Having already begun the PhD in Cape Town, once she completed her field work with the DGRU, she went to Belgium to undertake the other part of it at Ghent University under the supervision of Professor Eva Brems. Cape Argus