Cape Town - Following reports that the prevalence of TB in the Western Cape grew by six percent during the lockdown, the legislature’s standing committee on health invited Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo to discuss the province’s recently announced fast-tracking strategy to screen and diagnose people living with TB. The provincial government’s strategy aims to screen, diagnose and treat 90% of the groups vulnerable and living with the disease as part of the 90-90-90 strategy approach to managing the dual epidemics of HIV and TB. Committee member Melikhaya Xego (EFF) said: “Around June this year, there was a decline of close to 50% in TB testing in the province, which is not good at all.” “While we understand that the provincial health care sector was focusing on fighting the spread of Covid-19, we cannot afford to have a health care system that is one dimensional, in a sense that it focuses on Covid-19 to the neglect of other killer diseases such as TB.” “If that is the case, then it means we have a weak health care system in the province which needs to be capacitated. MEC Mbombo must indeed outline a working strategy to screen, diagnose and treat people who are vulnerable and living with TB.” Chairperson of the standing committee on health Wendy Philander (DA) said: “With the high prevalence of TB, the province's strategy will further reduce conditions that are contributing to the burden of disease in the province by integrating health responses.” “As the resurgence of Covid-19 may present an additional burden on our healthcare system, it is important that we continue practising oversight on the measures taken by the government to maintain the system and provide the best possible healthcare for residents,” said Philander. Mbombo said: “Amid the emergence of Covid-19 and due to its prioritised focus, there has been a significant decrease in patients accessing TB and HIV services within the province and thus a decrease in the data was noted, compounding the December 2020 target of achieving 90-90-90.” “The province, in response to improving the TB data, has developed catch-up plans for both HIV and TB and this has further been filtered in both metro and rural health services with the reintroduction of primary health care  service’s plans,” said Mbombo. Cape Argus