Cape Town – Despite the financial year ending in a crisis, the Wesgro Convention Bureau team secured 52 new bids for the Western Cape as a conference destination, which is expected to bring 38 291 delegates with an estimated economic impact of R1.2 billion, according to the entity’s annual report for the 2019/20 financial year. Committee chairperson Deidré Baartman said: “We welcome the phenomenal achievements by Wesgro this year in having secured 18 investment projects to the value of R2.24 billion and for creating more than 5 000 jobs through its various initiatives. “Wesgro is also supporting 46 tourism marketing initiatives through its convention bureau team which will have an estimated economic impact of over R935.6 million. This work by Wesgro has seen the Western Cape economy grow and also created vital working opportunities for the residents of the province.” Meanwhile, standing committee on finance, economic opportunities and tourism member Andricus Van Der Westhuizen (DA) wanted to know if there were figures for businesses disinvesting from the province. Wesgro chief executive Tim Harris said: “We don’t have a target to track disinvesting from the province, but we have a team that works on business retention and expansion. “That team works with companies that are already here to expand their footprint, but also heading off any disinvestment by working with the companies to retain them in the market. It is all part of our investment promotion programme.” In response to ANC provincial spokesperson on finance, Nomi Nkondlo, who asked about the fate of the one-stop shop Wesgro had Cape Town’s Golden Acre, Harris said: “The big reform in the last few months  during lockdown was introducing a virtual service so that people don’t actually need to come into the physical location.” In the report, Wesgro vice-chairperson Mike Spicer said: “Unfortunately, international leisure and business tourism are of the sectors that have been the hardest hit by Covid-19. “While we know that some of these initiatives could not go ahead after the national government declared a state of disaster, we are not yet able to grasp the full magnitude of the resultant loss to livelihoods. It is imperative that we do everything within our power to support recovery of these sectors.” Cape Argus