Cape Town - Two kayakers from Brackenfell who got into trouble at sea were quickly rescued by the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) thanks to a newly-installed safety camera, running 24/7, overlooking the sea in Strand. The NSRI’s acting drowning prevention director Andrew Ingram said the safety camera had once again proved its worth in assisting the City of Cape Town and the Strand Surf Lifesaving Club lifeguards to prevent a potentially dangerous situation and to speed up rescuing those in need. Ingram said: “Shortly after 4pm, on Monday December 21 2020, a Sea Rescue emergency operations centre duty operator who was monitoring the Strand Beach surf-line on the new NSRI water safety camera monitor noticed two men on a sea kayak were struggling against the strong south easterly winds. “Zooming in with the camera the duty operator noticed the two men had capsized, and were struggling to remount their kayak. Our duty operator then promptly alerted lifeguards on duty at Strand Beach. The lifeguards launched the Strand Surf Lifesaving Club’s inshore rescue craft and 14 minutes after capsizing the two men were rescued. This is the type of team work that saves lives,” said Ingram. In a separate incident in Camps Bay, NSRI Bakoven duty crew and NSRI coast-watchers responded to reports of an orange object afloat off-shore of Camps Bay Beach. Upon further investigation they discovered that the object floating in the water was a small kids inflatable swimming pool rubber duck. NSRI Bakoven deputy station commander, David Rosenberg. said that after confirming the information, lifeguards at Camps Bay beach immediately attended to the situation. “We are appealing to bathers to please be cautious with floating objects around both coastal and inland waters. In this case fortunately no one was onboard the small boat but it can happen where winds blow floating objects out to sea or away from the shore on dams sometimes with people onboard. Please be careful,” said Rosenberg. Cape Argus