Cape Town – Non-fee paying schools in Khayelitsha are allegedly asking parents to make “voluntary” contributions to their coffers or their school reports will not be released. A Khayelitsha teacher said schools in the township were “demanding” voluntary school fund contributions from parents. The teacher, who did not want to be named, said the schools withheld reports for learners whose parents were unable to pay the fees. She said parents in townships were hardest hit by loss of employment during the pandemic, yet the schools were pressing them for money that by law they do not have to pay. "It gets worse in January when high schools demand application fees, and that grade 7s who have had reports withheld by their primary schools cannot access high schools at all. Bear in mind that these are higher than the learners' monthly grant allocation," she said. The teacher alleged it happened every year, yet the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) did nothing to stop it. "They cannot say they are not aware of it, as many schools in the townships have demanded the fee. Schools have annual audits that should also detect these payments," she said, as she alleged the contribution fees ranged from R100 to R500 per year. A resident, Nosiseko Monakali, said her child was a grade 8 learner at Iqhayiya Secondary School in Khayelitsha, and contributed R500 per year. Monakali said she did not pay as she was unemployed and did not know whether she would get her child’s report or not. Equal Education Law Centre’s Senior Attorney Tarryn Cooper-Bell said the law centre’s advice clinic had many enquiries from parents. Cooper-Bell said in terms of the national protocol for assessment for grades R-12, the process of withholding reports was unlawful. "Voluntary contributions are exactly that, voluntary – this therefore means that schools cannot force parents to pay." She said making those contributions compulsory meant the contributions were akin to paying schools fees, which a non-fee paying school legally was not allowed to do. "Should this be happening at schools, parents must immediately report the schools to their district offices for immediate intervention,” she said. ANC provincial spokesperson on education Khalid Sayed said it was  illegal according to the SA Schools Act for schools to withhold the reports of learners. "This is totally out of order. It is abuse and the department must clamp down hard. Our people must refuse to pay," said Sayed. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said schools could not withhold a report card due to non-payment of school fees, and certainly not for the non-payment of “contributions” at a non-fee paying school. Hammond said parents must report such demands and behaviour to the district office so that the department could investigate. "If parents can contribute a fund towards a school, then they are welcome to do so, however, the payment of such voluntary contributions should not affect the receipt of report cards at all. A non-fee school cannot enforce voluntary contributions on any parent," she said. She said the department would, however, ask that parents ensured learners returned their textbooks as required. Cape Argus