Captain David Simelane is South Africa’s first black game capture rated pilot. Nicknamed 'Blackhawk', Simelane completed his game capture rating, which is an endorsement on his pilot license, with flying colours this month. Game capture rating is a very complex pilot endorsement rating where a helicopter pilot needs to take into consideration the environment, animals and the crew all while managing the actual helicopter itself. Simelane has been a helicopter pilot for 16 years and has flown all over the world including Madagascar and South Sudan, “I have a passion for flying and now I get to combine that with my love for wildlife and nature. I wake up in the morning knowing that every flight I do is to make a difference in nature conservation and in people’s lives," he said. Simelane, who started working for SANParks earlier this year, is Kruger Nationál Park's first black helicopter pilot working under SANParks Air Services which provide aerial support for many of the departments within SANParks. "Working as a pilot for SANParks is a calling. It is tough but I am in a blessed position to say that this is not a job for me, it’s a passion. Couple that with the fact that I am doing it in the same park I first fell in love with wildlife 25 years ago, is just a dream come true for me," he added. SANParks CEO Fundisile Mketeni said they were extremely proud of Simelane and his achievement. "He is an inspiration to many young black aspiring pilots, and we hope that his passion will inspire more people to choose this industry as their careers. "Simelane’s achievement is a reflection of SANParks’ action to improve employees’ expertise to address inequalities and disparities in staff profiles. SANParks is committed towards the development and implementation of access, equity, and equal employment opportunities within the organisation. “Society has started to realise how important both our natural and cultural heritage is, and with a passionate and educated person like Simelane at SANParks. we can continue to conserve and leave future generations with the natural beauty and heritage of South Africa," said Mketeni.