Cape town - A Bothasig resident’s pavement library has raised the ire of her neighbours who complained to the City about the noise emanating from her side of the fence. Inspired to share her books with her community, Denise Riddle founded a free book exchange initiative called Booksie the booktroll, similar to pavement libraries found across the world. However, according to Riddle a disagreement between her and a neighbour has resulted in her being asked to shut down Booksie. A month ago Riddle was served with a verbal notice by law enforcement officers to shut down Booksie. “Booksie is a free library for our community, it’s accessible and has helped the community during the months of lockdown. “Our pensioners, children and even essential workers use Booksie. “It's really not about me and it's sad that someone would want it shut down because of personal reasons.” “When law enforcement officers came to my home and told me to shut down Booksie, I was shocked when they said that my neighbour had lodged a complaint saying it was in contravention of a City by-law,” said Riddle. Law Enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyson said officers responded to a complaint about noise nuisances and issued a compliance notice in terms of the by-law relating to Streets, Public Places and Prevention of Noise Nuisances, and that no fine was issued. Riddle said that since the visit by law enforcement, she has been trying to get the City and her local councillor to explain the by-law she broke and obtain the permit she was told she needs to keep Booksie running. Bothasig councillor Helen Carstens said that while Riddle’s pavement library  was a welcome wonderful addition to the community it had caused some tension in the close where she resides, that is why her neighbours complained. Carstens  said that she will be engaging the residents to mediate the situation and bring Booksie back, if it is what all the residents want. “My focus now is on finding ways to resolve the issue in an amicable way. “I intended to host an engagement session with the residents of the close where Booksie is situated. “For us to be able to move forward we need to consult with the parties involved,” said Carstens. Meanwhile the community’s residents association has publicly backed Riddle’s call for Booksie to be reinstated. On December 3, a member of the association posted a video on social media calling for the local councillor to help them get Booksie reinstated. Cape Argus