Cape Town - A local running training group has transformed the lives of a Cape Town family after gifting them with a complete home make-over. The Adams family, who live in Bromwell Street, Woodstock, were informed three weeks ago they had been nominated for a home refurbishment from the High Intensity Interval Training Squad (HiiT Squad). The surprise reveal and key handover took place on Sunday evening. Recipient Mariam Adams, 47, said the entire family broke out in tears when entering their revamped home. She lives with her husband, four daughters, sister and two children in the three bedroom space. “I came back and it was like walking into a Camps Bay or Fresnaye home. They’ve taken me into the 21st century. I don't know how they did it, but they’ve granted me every dream I’ve ever had, everything my children have asked me for that I couldn't deliver and every promise my husband has made to me that he couldn't deliver. They’ve pulled out all the stops.” Mariam and her husband Adnaan, 49, are currently unemployed and rely on a Sassa disability grant. She said the squad had transformed their lives after a very difficult period for the family. Adnaan was diagnosed with stage 5 kidney failure in October last year, among other health challenges, prompting her to stay at home to care for him. “The public hospital refused to give him dialysis so we had to go private because they told me that without dialysis he’s got six months to live.” She said any money that came in would be set aside for dialysis costs, amounting to around R8 000. HiiT Squad founder Neezaam Mohamed said the group had chosen to bring the year to a close differently with a home makeover for a family in need. The group trains runners from a dozen clubs with 260 active runners providing free coaching. The runners sponsored the entire makeover worth over R100 000. The group was asked to nominate an individual who was struggling financially, was unemployed and in need of a home makeover. “This family’s circumstances were explained to me and I felt that this was a great fit for what I had in mind. I asked them to entrust us with their home and vacate for 10 days.” The family also returned to cupboards filled with groceries. “We gutted the house and replaced everything. Food, towels, appliances, beds, new roof, floors, all electrical, all new cupboards throughout and a complete new bathroom,” said Mohamed. Adnaan said: “I just want to extend my heartfelt thanks and gratitude to the HiiT Squad for blessing us with their kindness and support. The tears in my daughters’ eyes when they saw their room were priceless. Thank you HiiT Squad for giving my family what I wasn't able to. I am humbled.” Cape Argus