Cape Town - Seven children will receive life-saving heart surgeries this festive season, following a sizeable donation by healthcare corporations. The Heart-to-Heart campaign, reeled in over R700 000 for crucial children’s heart procedures, through donations made by Medipost Holdings and the Netcare Foundation, spearheading the campaign. The campaign is a corporate social investment match-funding challenge to raise the necessary resources for life-saving operations for children born with congenital heart defects. Medipost Holdings placed a R360 000 donation towards the campaign via the non-profit organisation, Maboneng Foundation. The foundation raises funds and co-ordinates sponsorship of surgeries for children with congenital heart defects. The Netcare Foundation then matched the donation. Cardiac surgeon at the Maboneng Heart and Lung Institute based at Netcare Sunninghill Hospital, Johannesburg, Dr Erich Schürmann said, there were no words to fully capture the significance of this remarkable donation for the children born with serious heart defects who will now get the surgeries they need. The surgeries are expected to take place over the next coming weeks. “An investment in the health of children is an investment in the future of our society, and it is an immense privilege to support the Maboneng Foundation’s efforts to secure the resources to assist children requiring heart surgery,” said Medipost Holdings marketing director, Rentia Myburgh. Netcare hospital division managing director, Jacques du Plessis, said there remains an enormous need for these highly complex paediatric heart operations for thousands of children in the country. Approximately 10 000 babies are born with a congenital heart defect in South Africa each year, according to the Maboneng Foundation. “Only about 10% of these babies are operated on and go on to live a full and healthy life. The disturbing reality is that only a fraction of babies born with a heart defect receive the needed surgical interventions in time,” said Dr Schürmann. Cape Argus