Cape Town - A Cape Town educator has been awarded the title Teacher of the Year, following a five week search by local radio station Kfm 94.5. Jeremy Dietsiso, 27, from Blackheath, has been teaching at Silversands High School since the start of his teaching career. He teaches natural sciences for Grades 8 and 9 and life sciences for Grades 10 and 12. Members of the teaching fraternity were asked to nominate a teacher who had made a significant impact on the lives of pupils, especially during the circumstances brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. On December 1, Dietsiso, received a call from radio hosts of the Kfm morning show, informing him of the news. “During the interview I found out that I had quite a few nominations,” said Dietsiso “It is a very humbling experience. I believe that every teacher deserves to be nominated. I feel that it is a great initiative from Kfm, because so many times the heroic deeds of teachers are not rewarded and this competition just adds so much more value to our noble profession.” Raised by a single parent, and through difficult circumstances, he had first hoped to become a brain surgeon when he was in high school. “Life was tough growing up. It was so bad in our household that I fainted at school once because of hunger. God sent teachers on my path to save me and today I am not only a heart surgeon but I am also a brain surgeon. “I regard myself as an education surgeon because I have the opportunity to shape the heart and brain of thousands of learners.” Dietsiso was nominated for the exceptional and selfless work done for not only his students but the broader community. As a response to the need for food relief during the lockdown, he started a feeding programme. “It really is a humbling experience and knowing that 18 000 people voted for me just really makes me want to do more because every child deserves the best.” On advice to those thinking of pursuing the profession of teaching, he said: “Please find your passion. This career is not for the faint hearted. Do not allow older, more experienced teachers to kill your hunger for wanting to do more. “Your passion will sustain you on those days when you do not feel like waking up.” The prize-giving is taking place on Monday at Silversands High School. Cape Argus