Cape Town - Climate change specialists are unsure whether nature conservation practices are substantial enough to prevent the impact of global warming. A new research paper by climate change specialists found that conservative efforts are not flexible enough if the focus is only being placed on trying to restore nature back to its original historical state. The research showed that a more flexible approach of reducing the impacts of climate change would include allowing species to migrate naturally or having them moved to more suitable habitats. Bob Scholes, editor of the research and ecologist at the University of the Witwatersrand Global Change Institute said: “The question of whether to intervene to protect species or not is a heated debate in conservation circles. “The animal people are much happier in moving things around than the plant people who are rather conservative. This paper was however intended to shock the conservationists out of the state of continuing doing things as they have always done.” The research claims that nature conservation strategies need to become more flexible and dynamic in how it addresses the impact of climate change on natural habitats, the composition of species and the functioning of ecosystems. Scholes said a traditional approach to conservation would seem unrealistic given the evidence that climate change has already resulted in significant range shifts (species migrations). Louis Liebenberg, executive director and researcher at CyberTracker Conservation, an organisation that tracks animals said: “I agree with the research that the conservative approach may not be flexible enough. The reason being is that climate change ecological zones will shift and a fixed protected area cannot shift with it.” He said if ecological zones shift due to climate change then animals and plants may not survive in current protected areas. By allowing animals and plants to migrate into new areas they have a better chance of surviving climate change. “Conservation can cause adversity among communities if they are not consulted with correctly. Communities must be part of this process and must be engaged with any new protected areas that may include their land,” he said. Guy Midgley, Biodiversity specialist at Stellenbosch University’s Department of Botany and Zoology said: “Nature is clearly resilient to shocks like climate change. Given enough time and the earth’s biological diversity has shifted and changed in response to global crises in the deep geological past, like meteorite strikes. “It is therefore crucial for us to work with the natural forces that provide resilience rather than limiting conservation thinking.” Cape Argus