Cape Town - Two women workers have lodged complaints with the SA National Defence Force (SANDF) claiming they have been subjected to intimidation, bullying, harassment and even sexual assault by their immediate supervisor, a chief petty officer (CPO). Patricia van Rooyen, 36, from Overcome Heights, Lavender Hill and Cynthia Bekwayo, 47, from Khayelitsha said victimising started after they attended a sporting event in 2018 and failed to provide proof of their attendance, despite many witnesses within the navy vouching for this. Both have been cleaners at the navy since 2008 and stationed at the Silvermine Naval Base in Tokai. The two claim that their supervisor has been abusing his authority, resulting in unfair treatment towards the two and the unwillingness of higher authorities to deal with the matter. Van Rooyen said they had approached several seniors with their list of demands, but felt these had fallen on deaf ears. “We went everywhere. The unions don’t help us at the end of the day. Last year, on December 18, my chief sexually harassed me. I reported the case to the military police. They haven’t come back to me,” said Van Rooyen. Van Rooyen said the incident occurred on December 18, 2019 when she was required to go to her supervisor’s office to sign a leave form for sick leave taken. After a disagreement regarding paperwork, she said she got up to leave his office when her supervisor came up from behind her and touched her private parts and pulled at both her arms. She struggled to get out from his hold and screamed for help. She then ran out of his office and took shelter in the cleaners’ room. She laid a charge of sexual assault at the military police in Wynberg, with the last feedback, received on November 11, stating that the case was still under investigation. Since the assault, she has had to endure verbal abuse, with evident favouritism in the workplace. When verbalising grievances, she was dubbed disrespectful and a troublemaker, she said. Van Rooyen said this has taken a toll on her mental well-being, leaving her to deal with depression and anxiety. Bekwayo said she was victimised by the CPO when it came to taking leave, by not allowing her to take off sick. “He was treating me differently. He used  to tell me that I think I am clever and think I am a shop steward.” She said leave and off days would be granted to other cleaners, and marking them present in the workplace, when they are not there. Nehawu SANDF Simon’s Town chairperson Jonathan Bruma, representing the pair, said: “A grievance was lodged within the department and as far as I know, there was no response from the employer.” The military police did not respond by the time of going to print. Cape Argus