Cape Town - More than 100 people were left homeless and destitute after a devastating fire ripped through an informal settlement and destroyed 33 shacks in Site B, Khayelitsha on Sunday. Section VE resident Zukiswa Mbinza said the fire, which started before midnight, was allegedly triggered by an electrical fault caused by a separate shack fire a few metres away from their area. “Approximately 45 minutes after we had extinguished a fire that destroyed four shacks not far away from where we stayed, a fire broke out in our section. "We suspect that it was an electrical fault caused by the fire, because from where the fire started the person said he doesn’t cook. "The settlement is prone to fires, including a devastating fire that wiped out all the shacks in 2005. However, in the past few years it has been a few shacks that caught fire and we would manage to control the fire. Last night it was difficult, because there was also wind that fanned the fire. "Also, after the rescue and fire services arrived, they could not access the shacks, which could have saved numerous shacks,” she said. Phumeza Nenzani, who was sharing her double-storey home with her kids and other three adults, said none of the residents were able to save any of their belongings. “This is a devastating time to have your home, your belongings and everything you have worked hard for the entire year to get burned in a few minutes. We have lost all our belongings including the Christmas clothes I had bought for my five children. “We are only left with the only clothes we are wearing and it is devastating, because in a few days it is the Reconciliation Day where all the kids usually are wearing new clothes and unfortunately ours won’t be able to. In fact we have no place to sleep or any food to eat. We call for anyone willing to donate anything from kids clothes, food and blankets to assist the desperate families,” said Nenzani. Ward councillor Thando Mpengezi said arrangements for the victims to sleep in the community hall were under way. He said rebuilding materials will be provided to the victims. Khayelitsha residents have just alerted me of a devastating fire that has ripped through their homes in Site B, in the VE section @TheCapeArgus @IOL @CityofCT pic.twitter.com/A3jK6b07wD Cape Argus