by David Biggs One of the Covid-19 rules that has been repeated again and again has been about “social distancing”. “Keep your distance from others. Avoid crowded places. Don’t shake hands, kiss or hug each other, rather touch elbows.” Even the friendly gesture of blowing a kiss across a crowded room has largely been dropped because our kissing apparatus has been wrapped up in masks. The result has been a rather unusual festive season. In fact, it hasn’t been very festive at all for many of us. Even the exchange of Christmas cards has been curtailed. Do they still deliver actual letters any more? I normally end up with strings of cards decorating my dining room. This year I have received four cards. Two were handed to me by the young artists who drew them. But we humans are naturally social animals and I’ve noticed a strange phenomenon that’s developed — well, certainly among my own friends and family. Where physical contact has been shunned other forms of contact has grown hugely. I’ve been present at two virtual family gatherings. People have gathered round TV screens filled with pictures of family and friends, often situated in other countries. You can see them, wave to them and — yes — even blow kisses to them halfway round the world. I’ve had e-mail chats with people I haven’t contacted for years. Maybe now that we are forced to be apart we need reassurance that there’s still some degree of normality out there. “Hello, how are you? Long time no hear. Good to be in contact. How will you be celebrating Christmas this year.” I try to look on the bright side of life even when it doesn’t appear as bright as usual. One of the things I’ve learnt is that it is actually easier to stay in touch now than it has ever been. We may not be sending Christmas cards, but almost everybody carries a cellphone. It’s possible to chat to cousin Mary in Canada or good old Fred from your motorcycling days, just at the tap of a keyboard. You can even wave to them via you little screen Could it be that all this social distancing is actually drawing us closer together? Last Laugh As we approach the New Year celebrations we might like to consider the role if the Toastmaster. It has been said that a toastmaster is one who eats a meal he doesn’t want so he can stand up and tell a lot of stories he can’t remember properly to people who have heard them all before. * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.