Cape Town - The DA in the provincial legislature wants to scrutinise Kannaland Municipality’s R1.2 billion energy project after both national and provincial treasuries independently reviewed the project and found “serious legal and substantive concerns”. However, ANC provincial spokesperson for Finance Nomi Nkondlo said the DA’s about-turn was more to do with positioning itself at the 2021 local government elections than anything else. In a joint statement, the chairpersons of the standing committees on finance Deidré Baartman and local government Derrick America said: “We will be inviting both of the treasuries and the Kannaland Municipality to brief us on the current discord over the project. “We have observed that the Kannaland council issued a notice of meeting with the intention of moving forward with the project despite these concerns. Local Government MEC Anton Bredell subsequently issued an instruction for the council not to sign the energy security management and administration agreement with the solar energy company, InnovaSure,” said the statement. In February, during an oversight visit to the Garden Route Baartman said of the project: “Government cannot tackle the country’s energy crisis on its own. It is vital that we break down national government’s monopoly on energy generation and provision, and bring in the private sector to diversify this industry as a matter of urgency. The Kannaland solar farm is a prime example of this.” While agreeing to the joint committee meeting with the relevant stake holders in the project, Nkondlo accused the DA of “hypocrisy and political footballing masquerading as genuine oversight concerns” in the dispute. Nkondlo said: “Nevertheless, our job is to ensure proper government processes are followed as stipulated for in projects of this nature and magnitude. We want the municipality’s economy to recover and for communities benefit from jobs, skills and improved revenue. “That is the reason, we fully support and agreed on a joint standing committee approach to an engagement with Kannaland on the InnovaSure matter,” said Nkondlo. Cape Argus