by Mark RH Kleinschmidt 2020 will go down in the annals of history as the most challenging and devastating year of the century. T he Covid-19 (coronavirus) global pandemic has claimed the lives of 1.54 million globally, 22 300 in South Africa, and 15 300 in the Western Cape. The human and economic carnage is threatening to surge during the second wave, and must be stopped at all costs. Thanks to the many individuals and civic organisations for participating actively in the Klipfontein Corridor Covid-19 webinar hosted by MEC for Social Development Sharna Fernandez and Dr Keith Cloete, the head of health in the Western Cape, keeping us abreast of the latest developments and strategies to curtail the coronavirus in the Western Cape. Let's all remain committed to stop the spread. Our civic organisations who collectively spearheaded the successful appeals to the Demarcation Board, must be commended for their input in preparation for the LGE2021. Thanks to all role players in the myriad beautification projects to uplift our parks and communities, despite the challenges of this year. In conclusion, I thank the committed ward committees representing community-based organisations, the diligent neighbourhood watches, all faith-based and religious bodies and the many families, individuals and organisations for assisting with food distribution during our most vulnerable period of lockdown. Your spirit of ubuntu and outreach is commendable and greatly appreciated. Season's greetings and thanksgiving from all of the City's 24 sub-council chairpersons, councillors, managers and line departments of the City of Cape Town. Be assured of our dedicated support and service, making progress possible together. Wishing you a blessed and safe festive season as we anticipate 2021 with a renewed optimism and hope for prosperity and health. * Councillor Mark RH Kleinschmidt, Ward 60, Kenwyn ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).