Cape Town - Tributes are pouring in for the City’s senior lifeguard, Thokozani Mthethwa, 23, whose body was found on the shore between Sonwabe and Sunrise Beach on Monday evening. Mthethwa’s body was discovered after three continuous days of an extensive search, since he went missing in the surf during a rescue operation on Saturday, and he allegedly fell off a rescue sled being towed by a Jet Ski while en route to assist a kite surfer in distress off St James. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said members attached to the police divers, in conjunction with police Airwing, used a helicopter to do aerial searches along the coastline from Mnandi beach until Kommetjie main beach. Van Wyk said thereafter, the divers also performed a coastal patrol on quad bikes and 4x4 vehicles from Muizenberg to Mnandi beach without any success. “At approximately 5pm on Monday, Law Enforcement informed the diving unit about the body which washed up between Sunrise Circle and Mnandi beach,” Van Wyk said. He said the body was on dry land with no need for divers to attend the scene. An inquest case was registered for investigation. Mthetwa’s friend, Deshni Naidoo said Mthethwa was a respectful, fun-loving, driven, responsible and adventurous young man. “Gone too soon. You will be sorely missed,” he posted on Facebook. Community services and health Mayco member Zahid Badroodien said emergency services arrived immediately on the scene and paramedics declared Mthethwa deceased on site. Behardien said he was the first staff member the City's recreation and parks department had lost in the line of duty. His life will be honoured among the few exceptional men and women who sacrificed their own lives to save others. “He was a seasonal lifeguard working along Muizenberg beach when he fell off a rescue sled being towed by a Jet Ski while en-route to assist a kite surfer in distress off St James on Saturday,” he said. Badroodien said as a result of large gatherings being restricted due to Covid-19, details of a memorial service for family and staff were being carefully considered. “The impact that Mthethwa has had on our lives will always be remembered,” he said. Cape Argus