Cape Town - Anger erupted outside the Athlone Magistrate’s Court where the family, friends and neighbours protested as two police reservists appeared for the death of armed response officer Marlon Fuller. Community leaders, Moms Move for Justice, the Patriotic Alliance and the Hanover Park Community Policing Forum came out in support of the Fuller family with around 100 people outside the court displaying placards calling for justice to be meted out, and no bail. Fuller, 38, from Hanover Park, a father of three, was shot killed last Saturday by allegedly by one of the police reservists. It is unclear what prompted him to open fire. Fuller’s wife of 15 years, Sharon, 39, recalled the events of that evening at Cascade Court. “I was in the house; he made food for us and he gave the food to me. I told him ‘you must tell the children they must come in, not late’ because I was going to lock the door. He just left and I heard one gunshot go off. I ran out and saw him lying on the ground.” “I asked him (police), ’Why did you shoot my husband,’ and they didn't give me an answer.” Her sister-in-law's child picked up the bullet. “He grabbed her hand and put pepper-spray in her eyes. She wanted to keep it and give it to the other police, but they just got in their bakkies and left the scene because the people wanted to take pictures of him.” She said her husband, through his humble profession, not only sustained their family but extended family as well. “I am so sick and I didn’t know what to do … there was no threat, no fighting. There was nothing. He just went to call them to come in.” Hanover Park CPF spokesperson, Kashiefa Mohammad expressed her dissatisfaction at the outcomes of the hearing. “We as the community of Hanover Park don't accept police brutality. They have to serve and protect us. To kill a father of three is unacceptable to us. Hanover Park is in grief and is in pain. We want justice.” Mohammad said every policeman who was with the two arrested on that evening should also be held accountable. “We need justice for this mother because this man was a breadwinner. This was a family man and a lot of the community knows him and that is what makes it so difficult for a person to stand and watch and say nothing,” said Mom’s Move for Justice member Mary Claasen. Hanover Park CPF member Yaseen Johaar said they rallied the community because they were not assured that justice would prevail in this case and that there’d be transparency as the accused are now police officers. “The justice system has failed us. Our people had to leave their work in order to be here, only for the justice system to hear their voices,” said Johaar. The case of the first accused has been postponed to December 21 for a bail application, with the accused to remain in custody until then. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila confirmed the case against the two constables has been postponed until December 21, for bail information and possible bail application. The accused has been charged with murder, discharge of a firearm and possession of ammunition, according to Ntabazalila. The case for the second accused was postponed to February 12, for further investigation with bail fixed at R800. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the two reservists, aged 37 and 45 appeared in court for murder and defeating the ends of justice. The incident is currently being investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate. Cape Argus