Cape Town - With the resurgence of positive Covid-19 cases in the province, Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC Anroux Marais has suspended the summer initiation season until further notice, following a cabinet decision taken on Tuesday. This as the Somagwaza Institute bust and destroyed an illegal initiation structure in Khayelitsha two weeks back where one initiate was found. Marais said, guided by the prescribed national regulations, recommendations from the health department and consultation with the initiation forums in the province, the summer initiation season would not go ahead as scheduled. “The Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport’s key objective is to ensure a safe and enabling environment for initiates and the effective rite of passage. “To give effect to its intention, the department plans to host training sessions early next year for cultural practitioners, inclusive of carers, traditional surgeons and members of the initiation forums. Consultation with all stakeholders, interested groups and individuals will be on-going during the current Covid-19 situation,” she said. Somagwaza Institute chairperson Sikelela Zokufa, however, said they were disappointed by the MEC’s claims that they were consulted. “There was never any formal consultation with the forums regarding the closure of the summer initiation  season. The only thing we discussed with the MEC was to present our readiness plan, which was adopted. “We are not against the closure of the season as a result of Covid-19 because it all affects us also as the custodians of the tradition. However, we will abide by the regulations and the protocols as stipulated,” he said. “We have done training of Covid-19, trained surgeons and carers, made arrangements for PPEs, screening and physical tests for the prospective initiates. We also developed an initiation protocol for parents to say there will be no gatherings, directions on how different customs will be performed including the number of people allowed to visit the initiation site,” he said. Zokufa said it was in the Institute’s interests for the opening of the summer initiation season as there were concerns on the escalating numbers of prospective initiates. “The more the initiates the greater the risk when the season is open, which can possibly create another health hazard. Once the number of initiates double, more than the usual annual number, it will put pressure on resources and manpower,” Zokufa said. Zokufa said they would raise their dissatisfaction with provincial government. Cape Argus