Cape Town – South Africa has officially entered a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Health Minister Zweli Mkhize, who made the announcement last night. In a span of 24 hours the country recorded 6 079 new cases of Covid-19. Infections are on the rise in six provinces, with the main drivers being the Eastern Cape, Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Mkhize said there was a worrying increase of infections among the youth, particularly teenagers. "It is important as well to highlight that today we have breached 6 000 in terms of new cases and the total new cases today identified is 6 709, thus giving us a total of 828 598 cumulative cases today," Mkhize said. A total of 135 Covid-19-related deaths were reported yesterday: Eastern Cape 56, Free State 15, Gauteng 16, KwaZulu-Natal 7 and Western Cape 48. This brings the total to 22 574 deaths, with the number of recoveries now standing at 754 658. A cumulative 5 690 263 tests have been completed, of which 38 200 have been conducted since the last report. The country met all the criteria for a second wave as set by scientists, Mkhize said, and added that President Cyril Ramaphosa would in due course address the nation on what steps were needed. The City said that due to the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the province, visitors to its nature reserves over the festive season would be limited. Mayoral committee member for environment and spatial planning Marian Nieuwoudt said this would be implemented as of December 12. She said the 21 nature reserves were popular visiting destinations, especially over weekends and on public holidays, where not only hiking and water activities take place but there were also picnic and braai areas where people could socialise and relax with friends and family. “Unfortunately, we are seeing a steep increase in Covid-19 positive cases in Cape Town, and the City has no alternative but to restrict the number of visitors to picnic spots and braai areas when needed, from this weekend until further notice,” Nieuwoudt said. The restriction on the number of visitors at picnic and braai areas will apply at the following reserves: Cape Argus