Cape Town - The provincial government has called on the public to avoid hospital visits, unless absolutely necessary, due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections which has placed medical facilities under strain. Over the weekend the Western Cape department of health’s Emergency Medical Services said it had responded to to a total of 6 302 incidents across the province. EMS spokesperson Deanna Bessick said emergency services had responded to well over 141 incidents in red zone areas, and 149 transport-related incidents, as well as 7 hiking incidents in Stellenbosch, the Kirstenbosch Botanical Gardens, Newlands and Table Mountain. EMS Director Dr Shaheem de Vries said some of the most common  incidents attended to by EMS personnel included non-cardiac pain, respiratory complaints, weapon assault and Covid-19 emergency calls. “We remain grateful to the brave EMS men and women who are committed to saving lives across the province. We are appealing to the public to take particular care of their health during this time of strain on our facilities, and also to support EMS officials during these difficult times,” said De Vries. Meanwhile the Western Cape Department of Health has made a call to residents to refrain from frequently visiting health care centres for non life threatening emergencies. This after several hospitals across the province released statements notifying the public about the severe pressure the second Covid-19 wave had placed on their systems. Health Department spokesperson Mark van der Heever said: “Hospitals in the Western Cape are currently under severe pressure as a result of the sharp increase in patients requiring to be admitted with severe Covid-19 as well as the increase in non-Covid-19 trauma cases. “We must thus ensure our health system has the capacity to take care of patients who need immediate care. We are therefore encouraging the public to please only visit a health facility if it is a life-threatening emergency or if they have a scheduled appointment. Patients are encouraged to make an appointment before visiting a healthcare facility.” Cape Argus