Cape Town - The lack of justice for the families of political leaders such as Imam Haron and Steve Biko, who were killed by apartheid police, is linked to the impunity of people accused of corruption in the democratic era, according to the director of the Imam Haron Foundation, Cassiem Khan. Speaking during a protest outside St George’s Cathedral  to mark International Anti-Corruption Day, Khan said: “The specific crimes of the murders of our political leaders under apartheid gave impetus to this climate of corruption that we have, because people feel that they can just do anything and that nothing will happen to them. “The perpetrators' court cases are being paid for out of the same coffers, whereas the families have to pursue justice and raise funds via private means. Is that not corruption itself?” Organiser of the protest and convenor of the SA First Forum, Rod Solomons said: “We chose today as the culmination of our Orange Mask Fridays campaign. We want those who are guilty of corruption to wear orange overalls and go to jail.” “This is a campaign where more than 80 organisations, including the Muslim Judicial Council, Cosatu, the Imam Haron Foundation, the SACP, the SA First Forum and the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation are urging transparency, accountability and consequences for corruption. “We are perturbed by the slow action by the authorities to bring those who are accused of corruption to account and we want the president to take action.” Provincial chairperson of Action SA, Vytjie Mentor said: “It doesn’t matter what party one is in, the concerns of South Africans about corruption remain the same. The agenda of saving South Africa is important and is not party-political. Fighting corruption is a national agenda.” Deputy president of the Muslim Judicial Council, Abdul Khaliq Allie said: “We need to take a united stance to say,  ’End corruption’. Our pulpits must vibrate with the message of morality, justice and fairness.” Archbishop Thabo Makgoba’s personal assistant, Reverend Nobuntu Mageza said: “We are here today to show the leaders and the country that we are against corruption because it deprives the poor of services. “Unemployment is rife. The money that they are laundering is the money that could have been used in creating job opportunities, and we are now saying, enough is enough.” Meanwhile, the One Campaign and the Nelson Mandela Foundation commemorated the day by convening a high-level virtual panel that included former public protector Thuli Madonsela and the Nelson Mandela Foundation’s associate director, Patronella Nqaba. Madonsela said: “At this stage corruption is no longer a scandal because it happens every day and people have become almost insensitive to it.” The One Campaign’s Africa executive director, Edwin Ikhuoria said: “Much more needs to be done to expose the systemic enablers of corruption.” Cape Argus