Cape Town - The City of Cape Town’s enforcement agencies were kept busy as officials battled almost 300 fires, arrested over 150 people and issued over 5 000 fines. Mayco member for safety and security, JP Smith said officials from the City’s Fire and Rescue Services responded to almost 300 fire related incidents the past weekend. “Our firefighters brought their A-game as they battled 292 fires between Friday and Sunday. While most of these were grass or bushes that were alight, there were 23 informal and 24 formal residential fires,” Smith said. “Their jobs are made all the more difficult when they come under attack from the very communities they are trying to save. I appeal once again to residents to respect the job our firefighters do in difficult circumstances.” Smith said a water tanker from the Lakeside fire station was damaged on Saturday after a brick was hurled through the windscreen and firefighters threatened at a fire scene by members of the Overcome Heights community near Lavender Hill. Smith said fire crews had to be escorted into Khayelitsha on Saturday by police as they responded to an informal structure alight in the area. He said the sheer number of fires at the weekend was proof that firefighters give their all to save lives and property. “The attacks on first responders are the work of cowards and criminals. Communities need to step up and not only condemn these acts, but also report the perpetrators. The very lives of residents are at stake if firefighters are prevented from doing their jobs,” Smith said. He said officials from the metro police, traffic services and law enforcement made 152 arrests for various transgressions. Of those arrested, 53 were drunk drivers of which 42 were taken into custody while participating in illegal street races. “Drunk driving alone is a high priority and we are doing everything possible to curb it. Now it is combined with dangerous and illegal activity and the potential for disaster is multiplied. “Our departments will continue to clamp down on this activity and arrest those who clearly show no regard for their own lives or those of other road users,” Smith said. Ten people were arrested by metro police for the possession and sale of drugs during various patrols. The drugs included six units of heroin, 11 packets of methamphetamine, 10 mandrax tablets, three half mandrax tablets, one half crushed mandrax table, four marijiuana stocked portions (stoppe) and two ziplock bags of methamphetamine. African News Agency (ANA)