Cape Town - Three people were shot and wounded in gang crossfire in Delft while one person died and another was injured as a result of a major gang war in Ocean View at the weekend. The 25-year-old alleged leader of the Junkie Funkies gang was shot in an open field in Puma Road on Saturday, while his brother was left wounded. In a viral video the unconscious man is seen on his stomach with bullet holes in his back as some community members tried to revive him. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the circumstances surrounding the shooting were under investigation and a murder case had been registered. Meanwhile, police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said the police had reinforced deployments in the area following sporadic incidents of shooting, public violence, attacks and damage to property linked to the conflict between warring gangs. “A 25-year-old man was shot dead and his brother injured when three suspects shot at them late on Saturday afternoon. Later in the evening, a large group of men, apparently responding to the shooting incident, torched two vehicles at 7pm, close to the shooting scene. “The group is alleged to have also pursued another man who had to jump from the window of his home while fleeing his attackers. An informal dwelling place was also damaged during the attack," Potelwa said. Two suspects were taken in for questioning by detectives while investigations continue. “A 23-year-old suspect who was part of the group was apprehended after he was found with a home-made firearm (zip gun) and ammunition. A 19-year-old was arrested for one of the two vehicles that were set alight," said Potelwa. Community policing forum chairperson Mansoer Ismail said the incident follows the fatal shooting of a member of one of the rival gangs three weeks ago. “These gang-related shootings are holding the community hostage, making it impossible for the community to function. We believe that this was revenge as there is war between two rival gangs, the Junkie Funkies and the Taylor Boys following the fatal shooting of a member of one of the camps. “Everyone is now walking on eggshells here in Ocean View as many innocent people died after they were caught in the crossfire,” said Ismail. Cape Argus