by Deidré Baartman,  MPL. In response to the article, “ANC warns on Western Cape stance towards IPPs“ (November 26): It is disappointing to learn that the ANC has decided to place politics ahead of residents, and would rather keep the lights out in the province, than supporting municipalities being able to purchase electricity from independent power producers (IPPs). The launch of the Municipal Energy Resilience project by Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC David Maynier should be a cause for multiparty optimism as the project aims to assist municipalities. Essentially, the project bridges the gap between national requirements, which can be complex, and municipalities which may not have the expertise needed to take advantage of national government’s new regulations. The crux of MPL Danville Smith’s message is that the ANC would rather have the Western Cape remain in the dark than work with the provincial government and municipalities to keep the lights on. Perhaps Smith has forgotten it is his own ANC colleague in Pretoria, Minister Gwede Mantashe, who has gazetted the regulations that will allow municipalities to purchase or generate electricity and thereby meet the needs of residents. Businesses need uninterrupted energy to keep their doors open. Municipalities need energy to deliver services and keep residents safe. Residents need energy so their children can study for exams, stay safe, and to lead a dignified life. By claiming that the provincial government’s groundbreaking initiative to support municipalities is driven by political motivation, demonstrates that the ANC in the Western Cape is more concerned with politicking than it is with the safety, dignity and economic opportunities for residents. The DA is not playing politics when it comes to taking every possible measure to ensure stable power for all residents. We are merely adhering to the constitutional obligations incumbent upon all governments. Perhaps it has escaped their view, but this project also stands ready to support ANC-led municipalities, such as the Cederberg Municipality. In governance, the DA does not put party colours first; the best interests of all residents, regardless of their vote or location, is our primary concern. It is government’s responsibility to create an environment where residents and businesses can thrive. Keeping the lights on is crucial to the economic recovery of the province. Will the ANC continue to throw mud or will it help the Western Cape become the first province to beat load-shedding? The invitation stands. * Deidré Baartman, MPL and DA Western Cape spokesperson for Finance, Economic Opportunities and Tourism. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.