The following two letters refers to the wearing of masks to curb the spread of Covid-19, as mentioned in “Winde to discuss Western Cape’s localised restrictions with President Ramaphosa” and “Western Cape residents who don’t wear their masks could soon face consequences”: by JM Chipkin Why is there no consensus over implementing Covid-19 curbs? I went to a pharmacy in Main Road, Sea Point and in my short walk I counted over 50 people walking or sitting around. Of those 50 only 15 were wearing masks… the rest were walking in threes and fours chatting or sitting on the pavement without a care in the world. Do they not realise there is a Covid-19 pandemic? What will it take to get these selfish and or ignorant people to obey the law? Is it not about time that police were on duty to fine people breaking the law? Lawlessness is repeated all over… people speed, go through red traffic lights with impunity. Our citizens do not care as they feel they can get away with everything. Men rape and murder defenceless women and children at will… the violence never ends and nothing whatever is done about it. Unfortunately, we will continue to live in a savage society as men do not respect women and know there is no death penalty if caught for their heinous crimes. * JM Chipkin, Fresnaye. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.  by Jean Michel Bouvier To all of you who don’t wear masks and say you can’t be forced to wear them as it infringes on your rights, and attend large gatherings which will further increase and spread the disease, resulting in more infections and deaths, thank you for exercising your individual rights and your don’t-care attitude about the pandemic. Thank you so much for continuing to spread this lethal disease with its dangerous consequences and to behave irresponsibly, thus disregarding the health, safety and rights of everyone else, and for pushing us straight back into another lockdown. I feel sad and angry because I thought we were a nation of intelligent people, yet the madness and stupidity of the superspreaders continues. * Jean Michel Bouvier, Bryanston. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.