by David Biggs As we head to the end of the year most of us are looking back with a small sigh of relief and saying, “Well, thank goodness THAT’s over!” It hasn’t been the best of years. The coronavirus pandemic has changed all our lives and it looks set to be with us for some time to come. We mutter to each other through masks and although we squirt ourselves with alcohol in every shop doorway it brings no merriment. I hate to see alcohol wasted on serious matters. We will soon be wishing each other a happy New Year, but with little conviction. What we will really wish for is simply to survive the dreaded virus. Politically, too, it’s been a difficult year. The Americans have struggled to get rid of their president and we’re not doing much better with our own ex-president. Maybe what the world needs is an anti-President vaccine. One small indication that we may be on the road to normality is the fact that the suburban trains are running again after a long absence. I’ve missed their rumble and rattle as they roll past my house on the way to Simon’s Town. Now they’re back adding to the busy seaside scene. Maybe we’ll see SAA planes whooshing past one of these days, too, then things will feel more normal. (Look, I’m trying my best to be cheerful. It’s not easy.) I suppose when we’re all safely vaccinated we’ll look back on 2020 and reminisce about how we survived the pandemic, rather like our fathers and uncles reminisced about their adventures in World War II. “So there I was, viruses to the left, viruses to the right, and having left my trusty mask at home, so thinking swiftly, I ripped off my trousers, pulled my underpants over my head and dashed to the safety of the open veld.” Every crisis brings its tales of heroism and narrow escapes. Last Laugh: Two friends were out hiking in the mountains, when one if them said: “Wow! Did you see that fish eagle?” “No,”said his companion. A little later the first man said, ”Wow! Did you see that kudu?” “No,” said his companion. “You should really keep your eyes open,” said the first man. “You miss a lot by not looking.” A little further on the leader said: “ Hey, did you see that?” “Yes, I did, “ came the angry reply, “In fact, I probably saw it even before you did.” “So why did you step in it?” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.