Cape Town - Community police forums and child-focused NGOs are struggling to formulate holiday programmes for children because of the surge in Covid-19 infections and ongoing shootings on the Cape Flats. With the closing date for schools around the corner, community-based organisations, supported by the local and provincial government, would usually be preparing initiatives to keep young children off the streets and busy during the holiday. This year, some groups are unsure how to respond to the need to provide shelters for children without putting them at risk of contracting Covid-19. Khayelitsha CPF chairperson Fransina Lukas said that while the forum would be actively working together with other community-based organisations to provide spaces in which children would be protected and safeguarded during the holiday, it was concerned about the effect of Covid-19 regulations on their plans. “As the CPF, keeping our children safe and secure is something we are most passionate about, especially during times when they are most vulnerable and not occupied,” Lukas said. “However with Covid-19 hanging a dark cloud over our head, we are a bit worried about how best we can accommodate the children we need to safeguard during the holidays. We have plans and programmes planned already and partnerships in place; we just need to finalise aid and funds from the DSD (department of social development) and confirm Covid-19 safety protocols and work together as a community to protect our children.” Bishop Lavis CPF chairperson Graham Lindhorst said although the forum usually catered for more than 300 children, this year it was struggling to put figures down on paper, not wanting to leave out any child. “Taking care of children in our communities during a time when they are not in school is not something new. We do it each holiday to keep them off the streets and not idle. However this year things are not looking so good with the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are however trying to form as many partnerships as we can so we cater for all the children in need. “We have asked everyone from local churches to active NGOs in Bishop Lavis. With assistance from the department of community safety services, we should be able to protect our children,” said Lindhorst. Cape Argus