Cape Town - The EFF in the Western Cape is calling for the Department of Employment and Labour to institute criminal charges against companies/employers that applied, received and refused to payout the Ters/UIF benefits to the rightful beneficiaries. This after the party's labour desk allegedly received more than 200 cases from workers complaining about their companies failing to pay their UIF to them. According to the EFF, the worker's cries forced them to embark on a march to the department on Thursday, demanding the department expedite all the Temporary Employer/Employees Relief Scheme (Ters) and UIF payments. EFF's deputy provincial chairperson, Nosipho Makamba-Botya, said they came to the conclusion that the department was failing "dismally" to undertake its mission statement to the employees in the Western Cape, and the SA labour force in general. Makamba-Botya said that was proven by the numerous complaints received by the EFF Labour Desk since its inception in September. She demanded the department attend to complaints of walk-in clients speedily and efficiently, to appoint more staff and especially labour inspectors who are incorruptible to execute inspections, compliance monitoring and enforcement of legislation and regulations. "We demand the department initiate legislation to make it compulsory for employees and employers to join a Provident/Pension Fund, and severe action against employers who are not registered/honouring contributions towards the Unemployment Insurance Fund and compensation for injuries on duty." They demanded an immediate establishment of incorruptible labour mediation teams in all labour centres in the province and to ensure all companies/employers within the department's jurisdiction payout Ters and UIF within 48 hours. They also demanded the department to immediately investigate conditions under which front-line staff - medical staff, petrol attendants, farmworkers, construction workers, restaurant staff, call centre staff - are working faced with the Covid-19 pandemic. Labour department chief director: provincial operations Mawele Ntamo said the department was busy investigating issues relating to Ters saying they were visiting all companies in the province. "We are continuing making sure that companies do pay UIF to the rightful beneficiaries. We also appeal to the EFF to keep making sure that they report those companies to us, so that we deal with them," Ntamo said. Ntamo said the department was working with the Hawks to make sure that companies are brought to book. Hawks spokesperson Zinzi Hani said the Hawks have recently arrested a director of an NGO who allegedly defrauded an undisclosed amount of money in Covid-19 Ters funds. Hani said the director allegedly claimed Ters funds from the Department of labour on behalf of 36 employees who were working for him during the Covid period. She said it was alleged that the claimed money never reached the pockets of the workers but instead used the money for his own benefit. "The 44 year old suspect is spending the weekend behind bars and will appear in the Atlantis magistrate court Monday, and he will be facing charges of fraud," Hani said. Cape Argus