Cape Town - Curriculums are slowly changing at universities as the country moves from coal energy to renewable energy. This shift however is not entirely possible due to the government’s dependency on coal energy. University of Pretoria (UP) Department of Mining Engineering head Ronny Webber said: “Renewable energy is still at the beginning phases of being completely efficient and is very expensive compared to coal mining. Coal mining is still the cheapest energy and don't expect this to change for over the next 50-100 years.” He said students who are studying coal energy are made aware of sustainable energy and its challenges. “Universities in the post-graduate environment should be looking into renewable energy a lot more at the moment. However, the basics of coal mining must be taught in the beginning stages.” UP Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering head JP Meyer said: “There have been changes within the curriculums at tertiary institutions. However, the fundamentals had still remained the same. The dynamics of the steam engine and the thermodynamics of a nuclear power plant are still the same currently. The changes that were made allowed us to ask specific questions to students which are more relevant to renewable energy compared to previous years. Previously we would focus more on coal energy because that was the only way electricity was being generated in South Africa.” He said the focus has been developed more in terms of renewable energy, largely due to people's awareness of the energy crisis. Webber said: “Renewables is the route where many are moving to but due to the country's dependency on coal energy, it is however a problem at this stage because of the length of time needed to shift to renewable energy.” Extinction Rebellion spokesperson Michael Wolf said: “We need to push for environmental literacy courses on all educational levels. Unfortunately, large parts of our population are unaware of the most basic interactions between us humans and our environment. They lack environmental literacy. “Teaching environmental literacy from as early as primary school is an absolute necessity if we as the human race want to have a chance to persevere on this planet.” A new engineering facility has also opened at the UP and aims to address the shortage of civil engineers across South Africa and will strategically focus on research related to harmful emission reduction. The country's first Engineering 4.0 facility has a unique approach to its curriculum in that it focuses on improving transport infrastructure across the provinces, particularly due to the high levels of traffic. Civil Engineering Department head Wynand Steyn said: “Engineering 4.0’s research is concentrating on the reduction of energy consumption levels in transportation. Research will focus on road construction, road use, traffic flow, and smart transport systems, now and into the future.” He said the facility worked towards smarter roads with infrastructure that would complement smart cars. This would help reduce traffic congestion and could ensure the safety of passengers, including cargo. “The transporting of food can also be improved to reduce wastage or damage to fresh produce,” he said. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula said Engineering 4.0’s focus on reduction of energy consumption levels in transportation was a great achievement for South Africa. “It will ensure that government’s future investments and infrastructural developments are based on sound research and are environmentally friendly.” He said the beneficiaries of these investments would be cities, towns and rural communities that rely on public transport and road network for economic participation. The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) partnered with UP. Sanral chief executive Skumbuzo Macozoma said: “This partnership forms part of the university’s future transportation and smart cities research which focuses on leading South Africa into the fourth industrial revolution.” He said Sanral would reap the benefits of material testing at the facility. Future graduates would be prepared for the future world of work in which job creation and economic growth were driven by smart infrastructure and data science. Cape Argus