Cape Town - Affectionately known as Mr Noon Gun, retired Noon Gun operator Dudley Malgas has died. Chief Petty Officer Malgas died on Monday morning at the age of 62. Malgas retired on August 31, 2019, following 22 years of dedicated service as the noon gun operator at Signal Hill. After his retirement, he started transporting schoolchildren. His son, Nathan Malgas, 37, said his father was rushed to 2 Military Hospital in Wynberg on Sunday evening. He had been in hospital during the past three months, he added. In August, Malgas tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered from it. However, he continued to complain of a shortness of breath. It was then that it was discovered that he had stage four of sarcoidosis, a rare lung disease, that he had battled for six years. “One of his lungs collapsed because he had clots on his lung as well,” said Nathan. He added that his father’s passing had had a big impact on the family. “We’re not well. It’s a very big loss for us. He kept our family together.” Malgas has been described as an honourable gentleman by those close to him. Goodwood resident and family friend Anwar Gallant, 38, said that as a friend of his son he had slept over at the Malgas family home many times as a child. “I met him at the age of about eight or nine. He was one of the most humble, caring and friendliest souls I’ve met. Uncle Duds was one of a kind.” Rodney Brown, 47, from Westridge, said Malgas was his instructor in 1993 and the first person he had met after joining the SA Navy’s armament depot. At the time, Malgas was an instructor at the SA Navy dog school at Red Hill. Malgas joined the navy 39 years ago and was a former marine. “He lived for so many people, and was willing to go the extra mile, sometimes at the expense of his own family. He had a naughty streak but was genuinely someone who would go out of his way to help others,” said Brown. “He had a big love for dogs and kids. When he started gardening in his last days, he handed every child in the street a plant and told them to take responsibility for their ‘little babies’.” Malgas lived in Church Street, Brooklyn. He and his wife Estelle, 65, raised seven children. “My husband was the most giving and loving person, and that goes beyond race, colour and creed, and that is what made me love him so much. Nothing was too difficult for him. He would go out of his way, even in the middle of the night, for others,” Estelle said. The pair would have celebrated their 21st wedding anniversary on December 16. Cape Argus