Cape Town - A trailblazing all-female wildlands firefighting crew is ready to spring into action should the need arise this fire season, however it is in desperate need of a base or standby quarters. Established in November 2019, the Cape Town based Juliet Crew consists of around 11 women, eight of whom are experienced wildlands firefighters, with three in training. Most of the crew are from Khayelitsha, with others from Eerste River, Mfuleni, Lavender Hill and Bonteheuwel. The dynamic crew was born out of a partnership between NCC Environmental Services, Chrysalis Academy, and the Department of Health and Safety (EPWP programme). The crew is stationed at the Chrysalis Academy for three weeks and will need an alternative solution come January 4, 2021. Superintendent of Juliet, Kylie Paul said the crew had a successful first season, where many challenges were faced and overcome, and many lessons learned. On its more current need, she explained the urgency for a base or standby quarters. “The crew travels in and out each day, some have to catch three taxis, others have to stay with friends or family to try to mitigate the costly travel costs. A base would represent a home to us. A place to kick off our boots after a long shift, to train, grow and bond. A place where the women would be safe and not have to travel with all of their fire equipment each day,” said . NCC Environmental services managing director, Dean Ferreira said firefighting crews throughout SA and at NCC are generally male dominated. “A couple of years ago I had the idea of starting a female crew that would eventually end up in an all-gender crew.” Some of the obstacles encountered is the provision of appropriate wear and a standby quarters with beds among others. Wine producer and Huis van Chevallerie director Christa von La Chevallerie said proceeds from purchases on its Circa Pinotage Brut Rosé would go towards meeting some of the crew's needs. “When they started as a firefighting all women's team, they didn't even have shoes or clothing that fit them. They needed to work with men’s sizes.” On Tuesday, she met with the crew and distributed gifts. Cape Argus