Cape Town - Women with disabilities are two to four times more likely to be at risk of gender-based violence (GBV) than other women, according disability rights advocacy group Blind SA. It said the presence of a disability increases one’s risk of sexual violence for women. This was highlighted during the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children. Blind SA gender-based violence and femicide portfolio secretary Irene Azwifaneli Mashele said women living with a disability are not taken seriously when reporting sexual abuse or exploitation cases. “Blind women are at greater risk because you might find out that someone gets raped on their way to work or at their home and when reporting it, it won’t go anywhere because they can’t identify the perpetrator,” said Mashele. More awareness campaigns, marches, and making use of social media and other forms of media could be used to highlight the challenges women with disabilities face with abuse and violence. Western Cape Network on Disability co-ordinator Natalie Johnson said it was not only women with disabilities but men, too, who were also at a greater risk of sexual violence and abuse. “There is the lack of physical strength to fight off the perpetrator. If intellectually challenged, individuals could lack the ability to give informed consent. “The perpetrators are mostly parents, ­caregivers, relatives, close friends and when taught not to question those older (patriarchal families), making it difficult to say no. “They may be physically unable to leave abusive situations and unaware of support available to them.” She said unemployment also factored in when the perpetrator offered financial reward in return for sexual favours. “The reverse of this is true when finance is withheld to make the person ‘comply’. The majority of women with disabilities, especially those who are historically disadvantaged, subsist on disability grants and may be ­dependent on family members and partners for financial support.” She said there existed a lack of access to justice and police and law enforcement for people with disabilities. “More lobbying and advocacy work needs to be done for the government to do more than just create fancy policies which are never implemented. “Counselling, legal aid and skills development should be made available to persons with disabilities who need to get out of their situation. Shelters need to cater for persons with disabilities as well.” Cape Argus