by David Biggs My son, who is on a visit to South Africa after several years abroad, has been amazed by some of the changes he’s seen in the country since his last visit. Not many of them have been for the better. One of the things that has disappointed him is the lack of Christmas festive spirit. “In England,” he says, “the whole country has been decorated. Every house and street is a fantasy of Christmas decor. Lights twinkle from every window, huge Christmas trees and displays of colourful lights brighten every suburb and public square. Christmas music tinkles from every shop. Pandemic or not, there’s no escaping the fact that it’s Christmas time.” Here, in contrast, the Christmas spirit is very muted. Sure, most shops have put up twinkles and baubles, but there’s very little festive feeling in the air. We’ve become a morose nation. Another thing that has surprised him is the very little free energy we use. South Africa has unlimited supplies of sunshine and wind, but only a small proportion of the nation’s electricity us derived from solar or wind generation. In Britain, apparently, more that half the energy they now use comes from wind farms. Vast offshore wind generators swing round, day and night, powering the nation’s lights and factories. Solar panels supply a significant portion of the country’s electricity. I tried to explain that it was all a matter of “potential corruption.” With a coal-fired power station you can award a billion-rand contract to to your wife’s brother to supply coal. You can appoint your sister’s son to the position of assistant director, technical, at a salary of million rands a month, even though he dropped out if school in Grade 6 and is out on bail on a charge of rape. With solar power things are more difficult. Not even the most loyal party supporter would accept your awarding a billion-rand contract to your cousin for the supply of sunshine. Well, maybe they would, come to think of it, but it might cause talk. I n the Western Cape in particular the wind blows all year round and there are huge areas unsuitable for agriculture or industry. Maybe a wind farm could be a productive option. We’re quick to blame the coronavirus for all our failures. It’s a handy excuse. But I think our real problem is laziness and greed. Just do nothing and the Government will bail you out. They always do. Last Laugh: A young student was chatting to his flat mate and said: “I take my dirty clothes to the launderette every week. I think it’s a great place to meet women.” “No, you’re wrong,“ said his friend. “A woman who can’t even afford her own washing machine isn’t going to be able to support you.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.