Cape Town - A Johannesburg woman who died while hiking with her family on Table Mountain was laid to rest on Sunday morning. Zarina Dealmeida Talia, 43, from Lenasia, Johannesburg, was hiking with her family when the unfortunate incident occurred on the Skeleton Gorge trail on Saturday morning. Talia was on a week-long visit to Cape Town with her husband and two daughters. Emergency Medical Services (EMS) responded to the fatal incident which occurred at 10:10am. EMS spokesperson Deanna Bessick said the woman was hiking with her family and fell while she was on the steps on the Skeleton Gorge trail. “Unfortunately, the patient was unconscious and she did not get up after the accident. When the first team of EMS responders arrived at the scene, the patient was already dead,” said Bessick. “We would like to extend our sincere condolences to the family and friends of the deceased.” Wilderness Search and Rescue (WSAR) were alerted to the call-out of an unconscious hiker a little after 10am. Spokesperson Johann Marais said members were called out as the woman was unresponsive about 200m from the top of the Skeleton Gorge route. “She had collapsed according to the people with her and they had administered CPR until the paramedics arrived. The paramedics were unable to revive her and she was declared dead,” said Marais. A helicopter contracted to the Health Department was used to hoist the body off the mountain and then hand it over to forensic services. Marais said people easily underestimated the rigorous effort required to hike in the mountain. “Foot and ankle injuries are most probably on top of the list (of injuries), fatigue or lack of water is another reason for call-outs while losing the footpath or scrambling up or down and then finding that there is no safe way up or down are also high on the reasons for call-outs.” To hike mountains, he said one needed to be more than just fit for walking and advised the public to take enough water, have phones charged, and to be prepared to be met with all four seasons in a single day. “When you return off the mountain be sure to report in. People have returned from a hike and decide to leave their vehicle while joining friends at a bar. Security of relatives found the vehicle and reported the hiker overdue. This has resulted in fruitless searches lasting all night.” South African National Parks (SANParks) spokesperson Lauren Clayton provided the following advice: Police spokesperson, Noloyiso Rwexana said a death inquest had been opened for investigation by the Claremont police. Rwexana said the circumstances surrounding the incident were being investigated. Cape Argus