Cape Town - Strand residents led by the Strand Action Group protested outside the police station over poor policing in the areas of Gustrow, Serkor, Cassablanca and surrounds on the weekend. The residents demanded a satellite police service closer to their areas, formation of a proper Community Policing Forum and regular joint patrols between police and neighbourhood watches. They also demanded reinstatement of sector policing and social programmes and recreational activities for youth, initiated by police. Strand Action Group commander in chief Niklaas Thysen said the areas were predominantly overcrowded communities crippled by unemployment and poverty that gave rise to all kinds of social issues. “This vulnerable community has been on the receiving end of very poor policing for years, which led to drugs, gangsterism and crime spiralling out of control in these forgotten communities that has led to unsafe neighbourhoods in general. “The Strand police have failed the community and are clearly not in control of the challenges and the situation in general. The Strand communities have no police community service centre (police station) in close proximity to the vulnerable people that are in need of police services," he said. Protest organiser Cheslyn Benn said gang-related shootings and murders flared up to 15 for the month of November and beginning of December. "There are numerous complaints of non-response or very late response by Strand police when the police are desperately needed. There are also numerous complaints of demographic challenges where by police officers cannot communicate properly and vice versa due to language barriers. Traumatised people communicate best in their mother tongue," he said. Benn said the relationship between the community and police had deteriorated over the years to the point where there is no police and community cohesion and joint efforts and initiatives to fight crime. "While this is all going on and the world keeps turning, parents are burying children as a result of crime and gangsterism," he said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed that Brigadier Hosking from Khayelitsha cluster office received the memorandum from residents of Gustrow, Casablanca and Broadland Park, Strand. Rwexana said the issues that were police-related would be attended to by police management, while some not related to the police would be referred to relevant authorities. Cape Argus