by Executive Committee: South African Association for Social Worker The news that the Cape Peninsula Organisation for the Aged (CPOA) is in the process of closing several old age homes in Cape Flats communities such as Bonteheuwel, Bishop Lavis and Heideveld, is both shocking and appalling. As concerned social workers who have the interest of vulnerable people at heart, the South African Association for Social Workers executive committee believe the arguments and reasons put forward by the CPOA chief executive must be interrogated. While we all understand the huge economic hardship brought about by the Covid pandemic, we also believe that the impact on poor communities would have made organisations that operate in these areas so much more aware and sensitive to the needs of vulnerable people. Senior citizens who have been spending their twilight years in a community facility that offers care, protection and safety cannot be expected to negotiate when and how they get thrown to the wolves. We know that old people are often the victims of violence and abuse because of their meagre pension. We also know that in many households an old age pension is sometimes the only source of income that has to sustain an extended family. When CPOA argues that it accumulated losses of about R265 million over the past 10 years, and that operating five old age homes in disadvantaged communities creates a combined annual deficit of more than R30m, we have the right to ask how they have allowed this to happen? We are however, also aware of the partnership between Communicare and CPOA. Communicare recently sold four retirement properties in Pinelands, Gardens and Diep River to CPOA. Although we don’t know the total value of this total acquisition by CPOA, it must be substantial given its location in prime suburbs. CPOA, with over 60 years experience of retirement services must surely realise that there has to be a balance between its services across various communities, and that the residents in their facilities in townships do not have the means and the resources to pay for all the bells and whistles that come with their services. If the facilities in Heideveld, Bonteheuwel and Bishop Lavis are considered economically unviable, it does not mean their residents now have to be evicted. The organisation seems to market itself as an economic “life right” business. What about the life rights of the current residents at Nerina Place, Lilyhaven and Oakhaven? While we acknowledge that organisations and businesses have the right to make decisions based on sound financial principles, we have to caution that services to our senior citizens must not be completely profit-driven. It also needs to be emphasised that if you present yourself as a service organisation, there need to be a level of accountability to the community where the services are offered and rendered. We have witnessed the traumatic ordeals of predominantly white residents at the CPOA facility in Observatory and how difficult it was to relocate them, under the guise that the building required extensive maintenance. We also observed the strategic moves of backyarders and homeless people opting to camp on the pavement in Observatory during the harsh winter and in the face of the pandemic. They have now occupied the building insisting that they have the right to be there, and in the process showing the middle finger to white monopoly capital. When people occupy holiday homes in Bantry Bay or empty building in the city, they all emphasise their right to shelter and accommodation. Similarly, we now have to rally to support our seniors and make sure that their right to shelter and protection is not threatened in any way. If CPOA is ready to withdraw from our communities it must call a stakeholders meeting, and maybe the Provincial Department of Social Development has to facilitate the establishment of a Community Trust that can continue the services for the benefit of the community, with the community. A noble gesture from CPOA would be to commit to a smooth transition with a Community Trust and to publicly hand over the title deeds of the facilities to the community. * Executive Committee: South African Association for Social Workers (WC). ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.