Cape Town - Police have arrested four officers attached to the Cape Town International Airport border police unit for their alleged involvement in a business robbery. The four: a warrant officer, two sergeants and a constable were arrested on Sunday, by Milnerton police. The officers were traced back to a business robbery on Saturday, at a warehouse in Montagu Gardens, Milnerton. Further investigation into the matter indicated that the officers allegedly used a state vehicle during the alleged robbery. Acting national police commissioner Sindile Mfazi called for immediate departmental disciplinary processes in relation to the arrest and subsequent court appearance. “The arrest of our own is disappointing to say the least, however, the arresting of our own members is indicative that criminality by members of the police is neither condoned nor tolerated. We also applaud the members who effected the arrests for their bravery and standing up against crime and corruption by members within our ranks,” Mfazi said. The four appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court and were released on R1 000 bail. Their next court appearance is next year. Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz said: “This particular incident left members of Chinese community feeling targeted by criminal elements and concerned about the involvement of police. We have previously seen similar incidents of Chinese business people being kidnapped and held at ransom. “We must continue to ensure that measures, such as these arrests, are made as they send a strong message to would-be criminals targeting both businesspeople and members of the Chinese community.” He said the arrests sent a strong message against criminal conduct within the police services. “Our officers are duty-bound to serve and protect all residing within our province. We cannot allow the force to be undermined by those who wish to cause harm to, or undermine safety in the province,” he said. Previously, a syndicate of eight members were arrested including the kingpin. This related to five kidnappings and one attempted kidnapping of members of the Chinese business community. These incidents occurred between July and November this year and could result in more linkages. At present, all suspects are in custody and their bail application is set for January 22, where the state will oppose bail. Cape Argus