Cape Town - Businesses have questioned the validity of the recent excuse used by some shippers blaming windy or inclement weather as the reason for by-passing the Port of Cape Town. The matter arose at the second port stakeholders’ workshop that was facilitated by, among others, the Western Cape department of Finance and Economic Opportunities. Exporters’ Club Western Cape (ECWC) chairperson Terry Gale said: “Since the lockdown began in March, 43 vessels by-passed the port of Cape Town citing problems ranging from Covid-19 restrictions to, most recently, inclement weather.” “The naysayers must also recognise that the new Belcon terminal, an inland nucleus hub serving as an extension of the Port of Cape Town, will be operational soon, and when it does come on stream it will have an impact for the importers as it will be an added benefit when the terminal is windbound,” said Gale. Speaking at the meeting, Finance and Economic Opportunities MEC David Maynier said: “The Port of Cape Town is critical to any economic bounce-back in the Western Cape, and the provincial government will do all it can to overcome whatever challenges lie in the way of the port. “The Covid-19 pandemic aggravated some of the existing operational challenges at the port, but thanks to the urgent action and interventions of all stakeholders in the port logistics chain, through ongoing engagements between ourselves and the Transnet Port Terminals management, we were able to turn the situation around and considerably reduce the delays at the container terminal,” said Maynier. Meanwhile, the Ports Regulator of South Africa has chosen to have a 0% tariff change for the financial year 2021/22 to aid the battling maritime industry amid Covid-19 disruptions that have hammered the country’s ailing economy. The Port Regulator’s regulatory committee chairperson, Victor Munyama, said: “We are cognisant of the poor economic climate in the country, both from the underlying structural challenges South Africa faces, as well as the more pressing impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the port system. “As such we are of the opinion that an overall 0% tariff increase as well as an export-biased lowering of container cargo dues would be in the best interests of stimulating local manufacturing, beneficiation and employment creation,” said Munyama. City Mayco member for Transport, Felicity Purchase, said: “South Africa’s ports are expensive, and not very efficient when compared with other ports around the world. “We now have a great opportunity to improve the port operations, and as such, the City has also indicated to Transnet that we can assist in improving its service offerings. I remain hopeful that together we can improve port and logistical operations to the benefit of South African business, economic growth, and most importantly, job creation,” said Purchase. Cape Argus