Cape Town - With 600 child drownings recorded each year in South Africa, the Aqua Dolphin Swimming Club (ADSC) said vigilance should be at the forefront this season. The club said this summer, it was mostly essential for parents and guardians to be aware of preventative safety measures to decrease the number of child fatal drownings. The City said there were 14 fatal drownings and  51 non-fatal drowning incidents reported last summer season, 13 occurred in the ocean and one at a swimming pool. Of the fatal drowning incidents, 85% of victims were male and the majority were teenagers while 72.5% of  non-fatal incidents were male and children under the age of 12 accounted for nearly 35% of all victims. ADSC founder Mina Manoussakis said swimming skills should not be a privilege but a right. “This is why we offer children who cannot afford to pay, the same high-quality service that we provide to everyone else. In Europe, Australia and the USA, you cannot be enrolled in Grade 1 if you don’t know how to swim. In South Africa children as old as 12 don’t know how to float, swimming should be an essential part of the school curriculum,” she said Manoussakis said unattended children can drown in less than 6cm of water. “Installing barriers to prevent children from accessing the swimming pool area unaccompanied is a practical investment. When at the beach, one should not swim alone, even if they are a trained swimmer. When it comes to your family, the right investments, like a tow float or dry bag, are as necessary as sunblock in your beach bag,” she said. ADSC’s appeal comes as the police dive unit, and rescue teams from the City of Cape Town searched the surf at Strand for a 19 year old who is believed to have drowned. According to the National Sea Rescue Institute’s Craig Lambinon the teenager had gone into the water upon realising that a 16 year old who had gone assist a nine year old, had gotten into trouble. Both the 16 year old and the nine year old were saved from the water but the 19 year old, from Mfuleni, disappeared in the water. Meanwhile the City has deployed 340 seasonal beach lifeguards and 300 seasonal swimming pool lifeguards around the metropole. The Identikidz programme will be rolled out, with deployment at 16 beaches on priority days. Mayco member for community services and health, Zahid Badroodien said the City invests a lot of resources into safety at beaches and swimming pools. “We remind the public to adhere to the instructions of lifeguards, to only swim in designated areas, not to drink and swim, to keep an eye on their children at all times, and to be wary of rip currents.” Cape Argus