Cape Town - Robben Island Museum recently launched a set of exclusive tourist packages targeted at getting more local and domestic tourists to the island for a number of never seen before exhibitions. In commemoration of Reconciliation Day and in celebration of 21-years as a Unesco World Heritage site, Robben Island Museum has once again reopened its doors to the general public. Robben Island Museum spokesperson Morongoa Ramaboa said that during the time the island museum was closed for business, administrators decided to add a few more exhibitions to the list of their internationally renowned exhibitions. “There are few places in South Africa that bear the weight and sheer historical significance of Robben Island, and a trip to the former prison serves as a jarring reminder of the country's distressed political past. “At the same time, it reveals itself as a powerful symbol for the triumph of the human spirit, and offers fascinating insight into the reconciliation and resilience that played such a key role in the development of a new democratic South Africa,” said Ramaboa. The museum, guided by the necessary Covid-19 protocols as recommended by the National Command Council, WHO and the Tourism Business Council of South Africa, has put in place Covid-19 safety regulations that will counter and curb the spread to both its tourists and its staff. “We are confident our Covid-19 response plan is in line with the risk adjusted strategies, and have put in place measures that can be amended as and when necessary to meet minimum requirements as far as the tourism sector is concerned.” The museum has also put in place measures to better cater for its local and domestic tourists, offering South Africans up to 25% off their usual prices for the duration of the festive calendar until January 15 2021. Johannesburg residents Therosha and Neeleshyn Govender said that as a family they had enjoyed the experience especially after trying five times to take the tour. “It was a sad experience for me, learning about the torture that people had to endure here while fighting for what was right. However I'm still glad and inspired that they chose to fight for South Africa,” said 12-year-old Neeleshyn Govender. Cape Argus