by Rajan Naidoo The township schools are persistently being attacked for underperformance without due recognition being given to the context within which they operate. Township schools are accused of charging school fees and withholding learner progress reports for non-payment of school fees. Political parties are quick to criticise the management of the township schools for this. Have they ever asked whether the funds allocated to NO FEE schools is adequate to ensure an extensive extra mural programme? Township schools are expected to perform at the same level as the schools in the suburbs in both academics as well as extra murals, yet the amount allocated to NO FEE schools is a pittance compared to what the affluent schools derive in income from school fees. Extra-murals is critically important for the holistic development of the learner. Learners involved in extra murals become leaders in the school and they excel academically because the skills associated with extra-murals are the very same that required for the imbibing of knowledge. More importantly learners who excel in extra murals develop a high self-esteem and this manifests in their academic performance. NO FEE schools imposing a school fee on learners is mostly to offer the extras that the schools in the suburbs offer as a norm. No fee schools are expected to fund raise to offer these extra murals. Considering that fund raising activities can be disruptive to the delivery of the curriculum and the biggest fund raising events draw pitiful amounts of income, schools in a poverty stricken community would rather call upon parents to make a contribution than hold fundraising events. Sadly the parents who are struggling the most would make sure that the small contribution asked by the school is honoured while learners with fancy cellular phones and parents with expensive weaves come to the school pleading poverty. Hence schools in the townships place a uniform “donation” that every parent has to make. The principals of the township schools are working with miniscule budgets compared to the schools in the suburbs but the expectations are the same. Schools in the suburbs use legal means to get parents to contribute but schools in the townships cannot do so by virtue of the fact that they have been declared no fee schools. This begs the question whether the NO FEE school policy is achieving its desired aim or simply entrenching a culture of dependency and entitlement. More importantly, is the NO FEE policy a means of placating the people in the townships to accept the poor infra-structure, overcrowding and dearth of extra-murals, with the thought that they are being given privileged treatment since they do not have to pay school fees while all other sectors do. * Rajan Naidoo, Principal: MASIBAMBANE SECONDARY SCHOOL. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).