The following letter refers to “Storm over Israeli Sevens rugby team training camp”: by  Ebrahim Wydeman How on earth can this country which has such a horrific past of racial prejudices and racial hatred and violence even attempt to invite an Israeli rugby team to the hallowed shores of Cape Town? Here, where racial segregation and racial hatred was the order of the day? Where racist practices were regarded as a norm by the white people, especially, of Cape Town? Where we as black and coloured people would not dare go near a sport's field reserved for whites? Where Muslims or, better phrased, we of the Islamic faith, could not dare set foot on a white sports field without being physically removed or dragged into a police vehicle and handed a criminal charge and record just for trespassing onto white people's sports field? How then does this translate into an Israeli rugby team being invited to our sports fields to place their oppressive boots on a playing surface frequented and officially used by Muslim sports people as an arena of recreation, while these Israeli Zionist sportsmen are freely entertained by who knows who, while our mothers fathers and family in Palestine are subjected to the most inhumane and at times most barbaric oppression not found anywhere else in the world presently? Shame on you. You have no shame, no compassion or regard for the oppressed Palestinians! Why don't they go to Gauteng or KwaZulu-Natal? Because there is no DA white government in charge. But you can rest assured, we will be putting pressure on our government to send these representatives of  Zionist Israel home. We will not allow you on our hallowed sports fields while you regard our Palestinian families unworthy of occupation of land you have stolen from them. * Ebrahim Wydeman, Surrey Estate. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.