Cape Town - Police are investigating a fire that was started outside the ANC offices in Oudtshoorn, after the party won two by-elections in the area last week. One person has been arrested. The fire was set on Thursday morning after the announcement of the by-election result which saw the ANC win two wards previously held by the DA. ANC Western Cape convener Lerumo Kalako said: “The ANC has taken note of the intimidatory tactics by those who set alight tyres outside our Oudtshoorn Parliamentary Constituency Office on Thursday. “We believe that this was a premeditated act because those who are alleged to be responsible are from Bridgton township. We are convinced that they brought tyres with them,” said Kalako “Our Oudtshoorn leadership has reported the incident to SAPS. We understand that one person has been arrested. We expect a speedy and thorough investigation, as well as convictions and a hefty sentence that will send out a strong message to those who are contemplating political violence.” After the by-election results were announced showing that the DA had lost two wards to the ANC, the party’s provincial co-ordinator Ronalda Nalumango said: “The ANC is continuing to grow in the province and has taken two wards from the DA in Oudtshoorn, and narrowly lost the third one by 14 votes.” “Pushing the DA down from its majority is a major achievement. It is proof that the DA can be beaten, and in fact, is continuing to decline. Oudtshoorn is an encouragement for next year’s local government elections,” said Nalumango. Kalako said: “In Ward 9 in Langeberg, the ANC won the biggest voting district and has shown a substantial increase, hence, our optimism.” However DA national spokesperson, Siviwe Gwarube said: “Over the past year, the DA embarked on a journey to correct its path. Organisations must go through a period of renewal and regrowth. This inevitably led to some disgruntled councillors, most of them facing disciplinary action, leaving the party. This is what happened in Oudtshoorn, where we have lost two wards.” “It is significant to note that in Ward 4, Oudtshoorn, with a majority black electorate, DA support held while the ANC support continued its downward course going from 47% to 42.2% of the vote,” said Gwarube. Cape Argus