Cape Town - President of the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Janine Myburgh, has drawn flak from environmental campaigners for her comments in support of nuclear energy being part of the country’s energy mix. In a debate on nuclear power, Myburgh said: “Let’s play with a full deck of cards, including nuclear. Then we will know which system gives us more sizzle for our steak so that we can keep the kitchen of our economy operating 24/7. “The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy together with the National Energy Regulator are surrounded by highly organised pressure groups with agendas that they loudly push at every opportunity. “One is the green lobby. It has re-imaged carbon dioxide. No longer is it a benign gas that makes plants grow and drinks fizzy. Its public image is now akin to the breath of Satan … “Engineers tend to think countering the perceived threat of man-made climate change should (include) nuclear-powered generators. If approved, such a small nuclear-power generator will make hardly a dent in the 24 100MW that will soon be unavailable, but it will likely be of modular design and thus more easily added when needed. All in all it is a sensible thing to do.” Reacting to Myburgh, Koeberg Alert Alliance spokesperson Peter Becker said: “The view that increasing carbon dioxide levels are harmless, and merely more food for plants, has been thoroughly discredited. “No modular reactors are currently commercially available, with some companies hoping to have them ready for purchase by 2030. This is far too late to address our energy needs. “The Integrated Resource Plan for 2019 makes it clear that nuclear power is currently the most expensive technology option, and has no place in our energy mix up to at least 2030.” Extinction Rebellion Cape Town spokesperson Michael Wolf said: “In making her argument, Myburgh unfortunately associates herself and the industry body she represents with hardline climate change denialists of Trumpian proportions. “It is very unlikely that her membership base supports such hideous claims and her underlying notions that combating climate change is at the expense of local business prospects.” Head of business development at engineering firm Energy and Densification Systems, Eckart Zollner, said: “A  greener future depends on innovation. If we’re to reverse our dependence on fossil fuel, South African industries are going to have to get innovative with energy production and consumption, which is going to require the prioritisation of sustainability instead of focusing purely on profit. “Change depends on an organisation’s ability to quantify their carbon emissions for monitoring and reporting purposes, which is where technology can help.” Cape Argus