by  Brian Schreuder I would like to acknowledge publicly the immense pride and gratitude felt for the many teachers, principals, officials of the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) and school-based staff who have shown unbelievable resilience and courage this year. It has been a very tough year in education. We have had to navigate our way through a global pandemic and at the same time ensure that the basic right to education, as enshrined within the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996, was met while striving for quality learning, under the circumstances, for every child. From the days of hard lockdown and the very many successful initiatives that were started to ensure quality learning at home, to the management of school feeding schemes, learner transport, the reopening of schools for teachers and then learners, the cleaning and decontaminations, the regulations and guidelines, the changes to the curriculum, and the emotional and mental support – our teachers, principals and officials did it all. And more. Some said as early as April that the “school year is lost” – eight months later, we can confidently say that it was not. And that is because of our teachers, principals and officials. It is quite simply inconceivable to think of the consequences if we had not opened our doors for feeding and learning, for a variety of reasons. Despite anxiety and fear, concerns in communities and personal hardships, the commitment to our vision for quality education for every child, in every classroom, in every school in the province has shone through in so many ways throughout the WCED. I have never in all my years in education experienced such a tumultuous time in this sector. And while we would all wish that Covid-19 never existed, it has certainly again underscored my faith in the education sector. I am immensely proud of the individuals that we have in the WCED and the commitment and dedication shown to the education profession and the learners of this province. I am also very aware of the personal sacrifices that many of our staff in schools and offices have had to make this year. I want to thank all their spouses, partners, families and any other support networks that have carried our teachers, principals and officials throughout this period. They too have had to make sacrifices so that they could fulfil their roles in serving our learners. As we reflect on the past year, I want to also acknowledge and pay tribute to our colleagues in the education sector who lost the battle against this pandemic. Our thoughts stay with their families, friends, colleagues and school communities. I want to wish everyone in education a safe and healthy break after this very difficult year. I am immensely proud of our teachers, principals and staff in the WCED and of the work that they have done this year. I am sure that many parents will join me in saying THANK YOU. * Brian Schreuder, Head of Department – Western Cape Education Department. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.