Cape Town - The province is concerned at the large number of people it is unable to reach through its contact tracing systems. Premier Alan Winde said a number of systems were currently in place to assist with contact tracing. These included track and tracing teams, community health workers and the newly launched CovidConnect system, where important information is shared via text messages should you test positive for the virus or are identified as a close contact of someone who had tested positive. The province has recorded 12 254 active cases of Covid-19, 85 009 confirmed cases and 70 061 recoveries as of 1pm July 21. To date, 2694 people have succumbed to the virus. The number of tests conducted is 378895. At present, 1569 people have been hospitalised, with 333 patients in ICU or high care. The province has also introduced a call centre to increase its efforts to reach those who have tested positive. Winde said between June 13 and July 19, over 11 700 calls were made. During these calls, agents check in on patients and advise them of their options for quarantine and isolation. Winde expressed concern that of those 11 700 calls, over 3 000 were unanswered. “These calls can provide important information for people who have recently tested positive in the province. "It is therefore imperative that you provide us with the correct contact and address details when you go for your test so that when we do contact you to start the tracking and tracing process, we can easily reach you,” he said. Winde tested positive for the virus over two weeks ago and said he had completed his isolation period. Previously he has had to go into quarantine twice before for being a close contact. “Since I tested positive for Covid-19, I have been able to experience the province’s systems in action. The Western Cape government has recently put in place a strategy to manage the increased risk of Covid-19 patients with diabetes. "As such, I received a daily call to check in on me and to track my blood glucose levels. High-risk diabetic patients will be advised to go to one of our intermediate care facilities, even if they don’t meet the criteria for hospitalisation, in order to ensure that we are able to manage their blood glucose levels and mitigate their health-care risks.” Cape Argus