by David Biggs I often wish I understood politics a little better. I listened to the recent wise words of our president and I agree wholeheartedly we should all do our bit to help slow the spread of this horrible coronavirus pandemic. Wear cloth masks to keep our possibly tainted breath droplets to ourselves, keep at least a metre and a half away from other people, stay in well ventilated areas rather than crowded, closed-in spaces and so on. Fortunately the places I visit occasionally when shopping for essential supplies are quite strict about upholding the regulations. I am sanitised at every door and have my temperature taken everywhere I go (a constant 36.5 in case you want to know). I could also accept Mr Ramaphosa’s announcement that alcohol-related incidents were taking up scarce hospital beds that should be reserved for Covid 19 cases. I was glad I had managed to lay in stocks of wine without injury while the ban was lifted. I was curious to know how many cigarette-related cases had occupied hospital beds in the past 100 days. The president didn’t give us an actual number. I just accept that the ban on tobacco sales must have freed up hundreds of beds across the country. I have several smoking friends, none of whom have given up the habit, so I watch them with trepidation. How long will it be before they collapse into a nicotine-stained heap and fill a precious hospital bed? None so far, touch wood. Relatives in America tell me the coronavirus in that country has become a political gogga. If you wear a mask in some parts of the country you’re regarded as a wimpish Democrat. My brother-in-law visited a largely Republican area and was mocked when he appeared in public wearing a mask. “Hey wimp,” some redneck shouted at him, “why are you wearing your wife’s panties on you face?” President Trump is on record as saying: “God gave me the perfect breathing apparatus, so I don’t see why I should cover it with a mask.” Infection and mortality figures for his country show there must be a whole lot of citizens with defective apparatus out there. I guess he believes the mortuaries are filled with dead Democrats. Frankly, I’d rather be a Democrat in a mask than a Republican in a shroud, but as I said, I don’t really understand politics. Last Laugh An 80-year-old woman asked her doctor to prescribe a course of birth control pills for her. “At your age, madam,” he said, “surely you don’t need birth control pills?” “Oh, I do. They help me to sleep,” she replied. “Really? How do they do that?” “I put them in my teenage granddaughter’s orange juice,” she said, “and I sleep much better at night.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.