Cape Town - Filmakers have raised concerns about insurance companies that refuse to include coronavirus cover, saying it’s damaging the industry. According to several film companies, Covid-19 is uninsurable, and that could have a negative effect on production companies. Hogarth WorldWide television producer Lance Petersen said: “Production companies and agencies are not able to insure against Covid-19, and most policies never included events caused by communicable diseases - something I don’t think anyone really gave any thought to. “Companies need to check with their brokers on what exactly they are covered for to mitigate any financial risks, as well as ensuring the safety of all on set. The cancellation of the shoot might be covered, but it’s neither here nor there. Postponement of a shoot will most likely not be covered.” Petersen said extra money had been forked out by production companies to ensure the safety of staff and those working on set. “Money has still been lost due to clients postponing or cancelling shoots. This has happened both locally and internationally, and has affected thousands of people who work in the film industry across the country. A large number of freelancers depend on international shoots and when the government closed our borders it resulted in widespread panic in the industry, as many did not know how they were going to survive,” he said. As some sectors of the economy reopen and film members get back to work, insurance companies have largely stopped providing Covid-19-secure funding, and have excluded Covid-19 or communicable diseases from existing policies. Cape Town is known as a premier film and tourism destination and many local productions were forced to shut down due to the nationwide lockdown in March. Warren Ferreira, founder and producer at Tin Toy Films, said: “We have been fortunate enough to not have to make production-related insurance claims during this time. However, I do know that you cannot insure for cancellations as a result of Covid-19 on a film shoot.” Commercial Producers’ Association executive director Bobby Amm said he was aware of the problem. “It has a big impact because no shoot is insurable if a postponement or cancellation is caused by Covid-19.” Mayco member for Safety and Security JP Smith said: “The city’s Film Permit Office is aware of six commercials and two feature films that were cancelled due to Covid-19 prior to the nationwide lockdown.” Cape Argus