by Farouk Cassim Newspapers are experiencing difficulties alongside many businesses in these very tough times as a result of the Covid-19 restrictions and economic downturn. One of the most comforting things to wake to is the newspaper delivered to your doorstep. In the days of yore, one also waited for the postman and the milkman. The cream floating at the top of the milk bottle was the stuff with which mum made scones, the like of which I never tasted again. While Covid-19 is killing off people as well as businesses, it also resurrected the milk delivery service of Wade’s Dairy in Bridgeport, Connecticut. After a century of home delivery, it had shut in 1992. What a boon that would be for many families if their newspaper, magazine, milk, bread and breakfast stuff could be delivered in a wooden crate every morning! For people of my generation a breakfast without a newspaper is just not on. Consuming news via the television and the newspaper while sipping tea has to be the morning fix. No medium is sufficient in itself. The one has to complement the other. Newspapers, in these extraordinary times and others which will be following because of intensifying climate change, must also do something else: it must, in the first instance, provide a social networking website that will allow registered users in the city to create profiles, upload photos and video, send messages and keep in touch with friends, family and colleagues within Cape Town. In the second instance, it must allow for business pages to be registered so that advertising can take place. Businesses can accumulate regular customers and keep them informed in a cost-effective way. Not every business can have its own web page. If the Cape Argus was to do this, people in our city could have regular news feed and social as well as business interaction will be fostered. What do you say, Editor? * Farouk Cassim, Cope. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.