by Alex Tabisher These days, negotiating through the mass of information demands a critical ear and eye and the ability to at least utter an informed opinion. Sometimes the decision to keep quiet is also an option. We are guided by a government that does not enjoy great credibility. All the guidance and direction-giving for dealing with the virus was supposed to be about saving lives. More and more, I see it as a politically-based exercise that has less to do with preventing unnecessary deaths and more to do with looking good politically. On Monday, a certain Johan Visser from Silvertown admonished Western Cape Premier Alan Winde for being excited about high-volume oxygen dispensers. One understands that, like the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome and the severe acute respiratory syndrome, Covid-19 is a respiratory virus that reduces immunity by reducing the function of the lungs. It follows that the provision of oxygen is almost mandatory in treating the infected. But it turns out that perhaps our government doesn’t see the elephant in the room. It is the forcing of oxygen into lungs that causes death. The lungs are unable to absorb the oxygen and the body is prone to “myriad micro blood clots in all the organs of the body. This is the primary cause of death”. The writer says ventilators are a failure in the treatment of Covid-19. He underlines the radical claim by advising infected patients to avoid going to hospital. An academic colleague stated: “The problem is vascular, not respiratory. Once your blood clots, you cannot breathe. Only one out of 10 people on the ventilator survives.” Another comment was: “I hope the specialists are going to listen to Johan Visser. Maybe they are so overworked, they don’t read the newspapers.” I am not an alarmist. The theory posited by Visser is based on medical knowledge gained during autopsies in Italy and US since April. Visser is 68 years old, asthmatic, hypertensive and diabetic. Talk about being infected and carrying those co-morbidities. Yet he didn’t go to hospital. He treated himself at home, based on the knowledge that what was needed was to treat inflammation of the blood and to prevent blood from clotting. He suggests medication, which I shall not repeat, and claims that it has worked for him and 300 other patients who followed his regimen. One asks the question: Are we sufficiently informed to deal with this scourge with maximum success which includes minimum fatalities? Can we leave out liquor and cigarette sales and debates about whether children should go to school? A focused view untrammelled by side issues is very necessary. Visser requests the premier to “inform the people of your province, and then the whole country, that Covid-19 is a manageable disease. We do not need a vaccine”. I am not endorsing a truth here. I am just asking if our information-gathering net is cast wide enough. Fine those who don’t wear masks. Punish those who abuse privileges. The nation is past being “addressed”. We need to be “told”. * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.