by David Biggs I was intrigued to read in this newspaper recently that Chilean police had managed to train sniffer dogs to detect people who have the Covid-19 virus. France and Britain are apparently following up on the idea. There’s an old joke about a dog giving a “lab report”, and now it doesn't seem quite such a joke any more. What a wonderful scientific advance it would be if a policeman could simply lead his dog past a queue of shoppers or bus passengers and be able to pick out the infected ones. “You sir, and you, madam, my dog recommends that you go into self-isolation immediately.” With enough trained diagnostic sniffers on the payroll, we might be able to free up hundreds of doctors and nurses for other duties. I read, for example, that 140000 children have died of measles across the world because their parents did not take them for their vaccinations. The apparent reason for this was that medical staff are too busy trying to manage the coronavirus to have time for vaccinating kids. Clinics and hospitals are under extreme pressure trying to cope with the pandemic. Maybe we need to train Measle hounds and Whooping collies as well. It would not be the first time other animal species have assisted in human medical procedures. For centuries miners carried caged canaries down into the mines to monitor the quality of the air down there. For many years, African frogs were used in human pregnancy tests. Apparently, if you inject the urine of a pregnant woman into an African xenopus frog it starts laying eggs. I looked up some literature on this and it seems the frog gives a positive result much quicker than the current Covid-19 test does. Similarly, the coronavirus sniffer dog also cuts out the waiting time. It lets you know immediately if you have the bug. This opens up all kinds of possibilities. Bloodhounds checking your blood pressure, maybe. Could we see dog handling becoming an essential part of every medical student's curriculum in future? And maybe a chihuahua as standard equipment in the little black bag for house visits. Last Laugh Two women were chatting about their clever pets. “My dog is so clever it goes to the gate every morning and waits for the newspaper delivery man, then it takes the paper and brings it into the house for me.” “Yes, I know,” said her companion. “How do you know?” asked the first one. “My dog told me." * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication). IOL is committed to freedom of speech as long as it is not derogatory or harmful to others. Connect with us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram to join the conversation.