by Dr Hisham A Hellyer Sheikh Seraj Hendricks, who died on July 9 at the age of 64, was a scholar of international repute, able to communicate and engage on the level of state leaders, religious scholars and the broader public. As a scion of one of the most prominent Islamic institutions in South Africa and internationally, who also spent a decade studying at the hands of the most prominent of Makkan scholars, he not only inherited a grand bequest but expanded that legacy’s impact worldwide. In particular, he upheld a normative understanding of Islam, embedded in a tradition stretching back more than a millennium – but deeply cognisant of the needs of the age, including the need to strive to make the world a better place. Hendricks studied the Islamic sciences for more than a decade in the holy city of Makka, specialising in law and the philosophy of law in the Faculty of Shari’ah of Umm al-Qura University before graduating in 1992. He took authentication licences (ijazat) from both the late Sayyid Ahmad Mashur al-Haddad and Sayyid ‘Abd al-Qadir b. Ahmad al-Saqqaf, as well as his extensive time spent with the likes of Sheikh Hasan Mashhat and others. These scholars are all known as some of the pre-eminent scholars of the Muslim community in the 20th century, worldwide. Additionally, he obtained a full licence to teach (ijaza) from his primary teacher, the distinguished al-Sayyid Muhammad b. ‘Alawi al-Maliki, master of the “Ṭariqa ‘Ulama’ Makka” – the (sufi) path of the Makkan scholars. Together with his brother, the esteemed Sheikh Ahmad Hendricks, Sheikh Seraj and I wrote a book on this approach to Sufism entitled, A Sublime Way: the Sufi Path of the Sages of Makka. Alongside his brother, he became the representative (khalifa) of the aforementioned expert of Prophetic narrations of the western region of Arabia (the “Hijaz”, including Makka and Madina). Further to his religious education, Sheikh Seraj was also actively engaged in the anti-apartheid Struggle during the 1980s and early 1990s, alongside the likes of figures like former ambassador Ebrahim Rasool, comrade of Nelson Mandela, and the renowned journalist Shafiq Morton. His commitments to furthering justice meant insistence on expressing constant opposition to injustice, while fiercely maintaining the independence of the institution and community he pledged himself to his entire life. The sheikh also was keenly supportive of the rights of women, whom he saw as important to empower and cultivate as religious figures themselves. But beyond his classes, he was a pastoral figure to many – a community made of thousands – whom he gave himself completely to, in service of the religion, and counselling them as a khidma (service), with mahabba (love), in accordance with the Prophetic model. Many urged him to restrain himself in this way, fearing for his health, which suffered a great deal in his final years as a result – but he saw it as his duty. The Sheikh was an international figure, a teacher to thousands, and an adviser to multitudes. Many today ask the question as to why religious scholars truly matter, seeing as it seems so many of them can be compromised by different forces in pursuit of injustice, rigidity and petty partisanship. Such a question will not be asked by those who knew Sheikh Seraj, for in him they saw a concern for spirituality, not paltry political gain, and a commitment to justice and wisdom, not oppression or slogans. In him, many saw, and will continue to see, hope for an Islamic commitment to scholarship that seeks to make the world a better place, rising to the challenge of maintaining their values of mercy and compassion, and exiting the world in dignity. * Dr Hisham A. Hellyer, a British scholar of international affairs & religion, is affiliated to the Royal Institute in London, the Carnegie Endowment in Washington, and Azzawia Institute in Cape Town. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus 