Cape Town - An HIV care programme which was started in Khayelitsha 20 years ago by Doctors Without Borders (MSF) and spread through parts of Africa saved millions of HIV diagnosed patients . So said MSF’s Dr Hermann Reute on Wednesday when the organisation was marking 20 years of HIV care in South Africa, a revolution that began in Khayelitsha. Reute said it was clear that without the programme millions of HIV patients would have lost their lives. “Through their participation in the health services, we managed to roll out this programme from Khayelitsha to the whole of South Africa and many other African countries. Millions are now alive because of the interventions. Whereas at the world stage it was said that ARVs were expensive, poor people don’t know how to take medications correctly, through this programme in Khayelitsha we showed that people survive if they take ARVs,” he said Reute said all this was possible because of the close working relationship between the Treatment Action Campaign (TAC), the community and its health-care workers. Activist Mark Heywood said: “We started in this community a partnership between Doctors Without Borders and activists that created a new model for health and for struggling for the right to health. As a result of this partnership and catalytic work of MSF we probably had the biggest gain for human rights of the 21st century in the first years of the 21st century. “When we started here in Khayelitsha there was no one with access to treatment but today 5 million people are living with access to ARV treatment and access to care and that is because of the power of the movement, medicine, science and evidence,” he said. Thobani Ncapayi, diagnosed with HIV in March 1997, was one of the first to receive treatment under MSF. “After I got diagnosed I moved to the Western Cape in 1998 because health services were poor in the Eastern Cape. In 1999 I joined the TAC and was lucky to be the one of the first patients to receive treatments from MSF at the weight of 29kgs. There was still stigma and discrimination associated with living with HIV. However, when I joined there were support groups where I managed to cope with the discrimination I faced,” he said Nompumelelo Mantangana, a nurse in Khayelitsha, said the highlight was the integration of HIV and HIV care and treatment “because it was a bottom-up approach and was never from the national (health) department”. Cape Argus