Cape Town – Cycling across the apartheid divide, a group of suburbanites got to learn a bit more about one another in an attempt to break down barriers. Dubbed CAN-NECTING ride, the members of the Community Action Network (Can) cycled through the suburbs of Pinelands, Langa and Bonteheuwel, communities physically intersected by big roads and a spatial divide. They shared stories and experiences along the way. Jacqui Tooke, from Pinelands Can, one of the organisers, said they were inspired by the idea of people from diverse communities cycling across the divisions of the city. “We were also intrigued to learn more about what other Cans have been doing. "One of their great aspects is that they rely on local community leadership and ownership, responding very specifically to the needs of their own communities. "This means that what is happening in the neighbouring suburbs’ Can is very different to ours,” she said. Tooke said being on a bicycle in a neighbouring community was different from driving through it in a car. “One is far more present and physically in proximity to the sights, sounds and scents of the space. "I was struck by how I felt more connected to the people and the places we rode through. I also felt more connected to my fellow cyclists who were all in conversation, learning, sharing, observing together, and sometimes huffing and puffing alongside one another. Bike rides build togetherness,” she said. Leanne Brady, from Salt River Can, said while they have all been working as part of the broader network since March, many of them had never met. She said the ride was a great way to connect and share stories. “It was amazing to meet so many people from other Cans. The apartheid geography design of the city still keeps us so divided and that, sadly, persists today. It was powerful to cycle across some of these spatial divides, sharing Can stories along the way,” she said. Mzikhona Mgedle, from Langa Can, said that with October being transport month, their aim was to also normalise the use of bicycles as a form of transport. “We saw fit to organise and meet through bicycle rides, as we are trying to shine a light on bicycles being used by some of our soup kitchens to deliver food for bedridden beneficiaries. "It’s all about the youth organising for solidarity, working with strangers to achieve one goal while putting the colour of our skins aside. The organising power of Cans is so beautiful in such a way that there are no red tapes or boundaries for one to get assistance. All that we did was free, all because the work we are doing is to try to build better,” he said. With the initial ride being a success, Mgedle said monthly rides had been planned. Those would give other networks close to each other a chance to also connect. Cape Argus