by Zandile Majozi One wonders where exactly the the SAPS gets its hard-handedness from; is it our apartheid-past and militant-style of policing, or have we failed as a society to transform our engagement with our law enforcement agencies? Whatever the reason, thousands of South Africans cannot all be wrong, or blamed for how police treat them. Therefore, it is left to me to take this grievance right to the top. The top echelons of policing, led by Police Minister General Bheki Cele and the National Commissioner Kehla Sitole and others, are responsible for thousands of police officers. All receive their marching orders from the top. It was not too long ago that the Department of Police pushed for reforms in terms of modelling the SAPS structure based on the SA National Defence Force. Some may say these changes were purely cosmetic, however I believe it has had an effect on our psyche, as well as the officers who bear the badges and are decorated in militant gear. Post-apartheid policing in the country has taken a turn as our society has become more violent. We have seen that officers in blue are now less liked, but more feared; less competent, but more determined to close cases; less respected, but more willing to shoot to kill. Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is charged with ensuring that officers comply with the rule of law. Yet, this entity is not very independent, as it reports to the police’s political head. To compound matters, Ipid is critically under-resourced and not able to meaningfully effect change within SAPS. I can agree with national police spokesperson, Vish Naidoo, when he says that is unfair to say “that all officers are focused on and guilty of police brutality and killing of criminals who cross their paths”. However, these utterances go amiss when the SAPS throws a blind eye to facts that are the lived experiences of communities across our country. There is no doubt that our society is becoming more violent. This is captured by many agencies, and the SAPS itself, with the release of the annual crime statistics. Thankfully, as these figures are now released quarterly, we are better able to track and monitor how crime is escalating in our country. We are now also better able to hold the minister and his department accountable as representatives elected by the public to keep South Africans safe from harm. The violent nature of our society cannot be greeted with more violence from our police. Particularly as many of our communities no longer believe in the ability of the SAPS to keep them safe. There is a clear lack of respect for the police and the rule of law due to past, present and current cases seen on every TV screen, in newspaper articles and on social media feeds. But as the old saying goes, respect is a two-way street. A lack of respect and a lack of accountability, combined with the use of deadly force, are factors which unfortunately engender fear of the police in our society. We are scared to speak up and speak out for fear of getting killed. Those right at the top cannot give mixed messages to the masses who serve in uniform. Integrity, respect and professionalism must be tabled and enacted to restore the public’s faith in the police. It is unfortunate that South Africans continue to feel unsafe in their homes, on the streets, and in their towns, cities and provinces. Moreover, we cannot boost investor confidence, grow the economy and change the lives of the unemployed young people in our country when we continually live in fear of crime. When a woman, a girl or any member of the public walks with fear, it is because the very agency which is constitutionally-mandated to protect and defend us, fails to do so. Safety, security and access to justice are rights and liberties which must be guaranteed for all South Africans. We must feel safe, and be safe, in order to prosper. There is no silver bullet for the SAPS, but there certainly is a place to start – at the top, with those in charge of the SAPS leading by example and promoting a culture of human-rights based policing. * Majozi, an MP, is IFP spokesperson on police. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).