Cape Town - The Congress of SA Students (Cosas) has called for a report on an investigation into the Divine Heritage Christian College (DHCC) in Observatory to be handed over to them. The group, together with the school’s parents committee (CPC), protested outside the school premises to demonstrate their disappointment with the Western Cape Education Department (WCED), and called for an intervention. CPC leader Cecil Skweyiya said they did not want Dorothy Tambara, the principal of the DHCC, to operate in any school until she listened to their concerns and "paid back their monies". Skweyiya accused the principal of collecting money from parents, and saying she would run a music academy for the school and would buy uniforms and textbooks. Skweyiya claimed that she had not done so, and “instead, she continuously took our monies”. Cosas acting provincial chairperson Zandile Matyeni said they intervened when asked to so so by parents who expressed their grievances, and they had held a meeting with the the parents committee in June. “Upon meeting with the parents, we found that school fees were also paid during the Covid-19 period, and that online classes were not resourced (and) educators were without working permits and contracts, and learners did not have textbooks,” she said. “As Cosas we call on the WCED to release the report on the investigation into the DHCC not later than Friday. Failure to give us the report will result in us shutting down the school until the principal is suspended with immediate effect.” Tambara said: “Our lawyers have advised me not to comment on all this.” WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said it was an independent school, their monitoring and oversight over it was limited. However, she said the WCED was aware of some of the allegations raised. “We had previously received a letter outlining some of the concerns and have investigated them,” she said. She said the school was registered as an independent school with the WCED but did not receive learning material from the WCED. Only public schools received such material. “With regard to the student teachers, we have been informed that they are not full-time teachers but assistants. And the foreign nationals: the school submitted the relevant evidence that they had the necessary permits and qualifications,” she said. Cape Argus