Cape Town - Gender responsive budgets are not separate budgets for women, but are general budgets that are planned, approved, executed, monitored and audited in a gender responsive way to ensure that resources are raised and spent to eliminate gender disparities. That was the message from the Commission on Gender Equality's provincial manager Sixolile Ngcobo, who was speaking on the topic of gender responsive budgeting in a presentation to participants at a workshop for the Legislature's budget committee. The workshop on budgetary processes which involved various collaborative partners of the Legislature aimed to provide a forum for all members to improve legislative oversight of budgetary processes. “Gender responsive budgets have been acknowledged internationally as a strategy for promoting gender equality. Such budgeting is aimed at main-streaming gender into public finances,” said Ngcobo. “Some of the key elements of gender responsive budgeting include answering the question: to what extent are women involved in sourcing and planning budgets?" In a presentation on how to budget with gender sensitivity, the Commission's Nthabiseng Moleko said: “Poverty reduction strategies must include long-term structural change and the widening of female casual or contract in both the full-time and temporary spheres.” Meanwhile, the Financial and Fiscal Commission's (FFC) national budget analysis unit programme manager Sasha Peters said provincial legislatures have a role to play in getting the national treasury to give proper time frames and tangible plans of action with regards to recommendations from the FFC. “While the national treasury does give some feedback on questions of division of revenue, the responses are not always very detailed,” said Peters. Freedom Front Plus MPL Peter Marais had asked whether the executive, the national parliament or the treasury ever paid attention to the FFC’s recommendations. The FFC’s presentation answered a wide range of questions that were posed by committee members such as how to improve fiscal oversight over the executive branch, associated administrations, agencies and entities at the national, provincial and local government levels. Cape Argus