Cape Town - Judgment in the case between the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) and Heathfield High School principal Wesley Neumann in the Labour Court has been reserved until next week Tuesday. Neumann’s application to interdict his disciplinary hearing was argued and heard from both sides during the school’s live streaming, with more than 100 of his supporters watching. Neumann faces six charges after having earlier this year refused to reopen the school amid the Covid-19 infection peak. Neumann wrote an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa and the Cabinet, asking for the closure of schools. Neumann had approached the Labour Court arguing that a decision regarding the legality of head of department Brian Schreuder’s contract must be made first, and thus his disciplinary postponed. Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the disciplinary hearing was, therefore, scheduled to take place after judgment has been handed down. Heathfield High school governing body (SGB) chairperson Vasoula Bailey, said they were hoping for a good outcome. She said at this stage the matter “looked” positive. “Messages of support are pouring in from social media even from people in the US,” said Bailey. Cosatu provincial secretary Malvern de Bruyn, said they were confident that the judge would rule in favour of Neumann. South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) provincial secretary Jonavon Rustin, said before Neumann was charged, Sadtu was aware of possible charges against him. “As Sadtu we support Neumann, and we have ensured that we offered our complete support in terms of our expertise,” he said. ANC provincial spokesperson on education, Khalid Sayed, said the ANC reiterates that the case brought against Neumann was “deeply unfair”. Premier Alan Winde’s spokesperson Bianca Capazorio, said once the Department of Public Service and Administration has finalised internal deliberations, they would have more clarity on the next steps regarding Schreuder’s appointment. Cape Argus