by David Biggs We spend a great deal of time and money learning facts and memorising details. We send our children to expensive schools and universities to be filled with knowledge. But in the real world it’s not so much what you know that counts. Who you know seems more important. I grew up on a Karoo farm with Xhosa kids as my companions. Naturally, I picked up a smattering of isiXhosa along the way and can string together a sentence or two. Whenever I meet Xhosa folk I try to greet them in their language (well, we expect them to speak to us in ours, don’t we?) and the first question I am invariably asked is: “Where do you come from?” When I say I come from the Eastern Cape the next question is: “What place in the Eastern Cape?” It seems important. Once you know somebody is from Queenstown or Cradock you have the starting point of a conversation. “Yes, I know Cradock. I have an uncle who lives there.” I think this relationship to place extends across all races. I recently needed a technician to unscramble my hopelessly mixed-up computer, so I phoned an address in the local advertising booklet. When I told the receptionist my name she said: “Now there’s a good old Eastern Cape name.” It turned out she also had a “good old Eastern Cape name” and hailed from Graaff-Reinet. My goodness, this almost made us family. The technician who came to fix my computer turned out to be her husband and we got along very well. It was that Eastern Cape connection (although he didn’t come from there) that made his visit a pleasant social experience as well as a successful technical one. I shall continue to use his services whenever I need help with my computer. I trust him and he understands my level of incompetence. Unlike some computer boffins I’ve encountered, he doesn’t prod away at the keyboard and expect me to follow what he’s doing. He says stuff like: “Well, that didn’t work, so let’s try a different way.” My kind of language. And it’s largely because some of his family knows some of my family. (No matter that they’ve never met.) That’s why our Xhosa relationships often begin with uVela phi? (Where do you come from?). It’s important. Last Laugh A young city fellow went to spend a holiday on his uncle’s farm. The first morning his uncle woke him at 5am and said: “Come on, you have to help with the barley harvest.” “Are barleys dangerous?” he mumbled, half asleep. “Of course not. Why?” “So why do we have to sneak up on them in the dark?” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.