Cape Town - Local businesses and residents in Bonteheuwel are feeling hopeful about the upgrade of the business area after work on it has finally begun. It will allow a lot more businesses to grow and will eventually create a more centralised hub. The City has allocated R6.1 million for the first phase of the Bonteheuwel Town Centre upgrade during the 2020/21 financial year. Mayoral committee member for urban management Grant Twigg said: “Initially, this project would have commenced much earlier, but due to the pandemic everything came to a halt. “We are delighted to officially hand over this site to the contractor to commence work. I want to encourage the community of Bonteheuwel to take responsibility and ownership of this beautiful facility once complete. “It is a facility to be proud of – from the architectural sketches to the designs.” The first phase will be fencing within the town centre. It includes vehicular gates, pedestrian gates, and the construction of additional fencing. Work on the double-storey building will start in January next year. The second phase will be the landscaping of the public space within the Town Centre. Design work has commenced and labour should start in the 2022/23 financial year. Bonteheuwel Project Steering Committee chairperson Desmond Booysen said: “The upgrade will create a better environment in the community and for the businesses. Local businesses don't need to trade in areas outside    Bonteheuwel, which will grow a bigger market in their own community.” He said the CBD had been much damaged over the years and he hoped the upgrade would improve the overall area. Safety in the area would also be better because more law-enforcement officers were expected. “More people are also realising that the area belongs to them and they need to take a stand, especially to look after it,” said Booysen. Mayor Dan Plato said: “We are pleased that this upgrade project is now under way. “It is one of the initiatives that form part of the Mayoral Urban Regeneration Programme aimed at uplifting communities and improving service delivery.” Bonteheuwel Neighbourhood Watch chairperson Sandra Malan said: “The CBD upgrade will certainly be a big asset to local businesses because it is an opportunity for them to grow.” She said the Bonteheuwel city centre was largely affected over the years by robberies and gang violence. Some businesses also moved away from the area, which left those buildings open to vandalism, which created problems. Bonteheuwel ward councillor Angus McKenzie said: “This project has been driven by the people of Bonteheuwel, and in a few short months the people of Bonteheuwel will have a ‘centre’ they can be proud of.” Cape Argus