Cape Town - Scores of residents from Khayelitsha gathered at a local stadium on day, to pray and denounce the scourge of extortion after gangsters allegedly demanded protection money from residents. The prayer meeting organised by Khayelitsha Development Forum (KDF), with its chairperson Ndithini Tyhido, said they heard the cries of residents claiming that  they were threatened with violence if they failed to pay money to gangsters. “We’ve requested the leadership of the religious fraternity in Khayelitsha to lead us… so that we are able to mobilise the community against it, without instigating it,” Tyhido said. Site C resident Noluthando Nozo, 52, said: “Those gangsters used to target foreign shop owners but now they are threatening individuals and businesses, forcing us to pay protection money or suffer the consequences.” Khayelitsha CPF cluster chairperson Francina Lukas said:: “The state must assert its authority and the police must exercise their constitutional mandate to serve and protect township communities where crime is most rampant.” Lukas said police must root out those criminal gangs preying on poor and vulnerable communities. Deputy State Security Minister Zizi Kodwa said he knows the struggle of Khayelitsha when it comes to crime as he grew up in Khayelitsha. Kodwa said the meeting was part of the strategy planning by the people of Khayelitsha including taxi associations, policing forums, business forums and residents in trying to denounce the scourge. He said Police Minister Bheki Cele was aware of what was happening in Khayelitsha. “When communities gather to say enough is enough, on one hand we say don’t take law into your own hands… we’ve got to do something as a government to help the communities.” Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz condemned the reported incidents of extortion within Khayelitsha and called on Cele to direct the steering committee established on extortion to assemble an action plan to urgently address the spate of incidents in Khayelitsha, the CBD and other affected communities. Fritz also called on residents who are aware of such incidents to report them to the Western Cape Police Ombudsman. Khayelitsha ward councillor Thando Pimpi said people must not be suppressed by criminals and gangsters. Cape Argus