by David Biggs Mother Nature can be a cruel b**** at times, particularly when viewed through sentimental human eyes. We humans like to say “All lives matter”. What we really mean is “Each life matters”, which is not the same thing. When a drought has reduced the supply of grazing to the point where it can no longer feed the 100 kudus that live there, Ma Nature sees that the weaker members of the herd starve to death until the herd has been reduced to a manageable number. It’s tough luck on the ones that die, but the tough ones that survive make the herd stronger than before. Nature doesn’t erect memorials and write obituaries to those that died. No, that’s the human way. Nature says: “There were too many. Now there are fewer. Problem solved.” I grew up on a farm where natural laws often prevailed. A hen would hatch 12 chicks - more than she could manage - then the little family would wander about the farmyard, with an occasional chick drowning in a furrow or being snatched by a hawk until the hen was left with three chicks, which meant she could protect them and shelter them safely under her wings. I see this with the duck population on Zandvlei lagoon. A mother duck will start with a family of eight ducklings, then end up with a far more manageable three. Some years ago, I was invited to hold a discussion session with a class of primary school pupils, all about 10 years old. We talked about problems like poverty and crime, homelessness, disease and joblessness and whenever I asked the youngsters, “What is the reason for this?” they arrived at the same conclusion: “Too many people”. I can’t help wondering whether the coronavirus pandemic isn’t just Mother Nature’s way of solving a simple problem. Too many people. Reduce the numbers. The kids found it obvious without prompting from me. The Covid-19 survival rate is pretty good. Most victims recover. Maybe when it’s all over there will be fewer of us and physical distancing will come naturally. It could all be part of her Grand Plan. Last Laugh A contractor approached a senior government official and said he wanted to give him a new sports car as a gift. “That would be highly irregular,” said the official. “I could never agree to accepting a bribe like that.” “Well, let’s do it differently,” said the contractor. “I can offer to buy you a brand new sports car for R10 rand.” “Ah, that’s different,” said the official. “In that case I’ll take two.” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. Biggs can be contacted at dbiggs@glolink.co.za ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.