Cape Town - Following the move to level 1 of the lockdown, more people are disregarding the restrictions and measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, under the misconception that level 1 indicates the disease is now not as dangerous as before. This according to Natalie Mnisi, one of four fourth-year medical UCT students who hosted a workshop for the youth of Langa on Wednesday on the importance of protecting themselves and their families against Covid-19. Mnisi said young people in the community knew the coronavirus was “an agent of death”, and knew they should wear masks and sanitise their hands but did not fully understand why this was done or why it was important to do so. The team also had a collaborative session with the youth, demonstrating how to use hand sanitiser correctly, and how to make masks at home using cloth and rubber bands. Ashmika Saieshree Singh said the pandemic had taken the health-care system by storm, and as future health-care professionals it was their duty to ensure information and education was available to the public and disadvantaged communities, to establish a holistic health system for all. “Our health promotion consisted of understanding the barriers amongst the youth of Langa regarding their perspective of Covid-19, and what precautions they adhere to as protection against this disease,” she said. “These workshops are important in informing the youth about Covid-19 and also in reinforcing what they already know about the virus. They provide them with skills they can use to protect themselves and their families. Interactive workshops emphasise that it’s their responsibility to protect themselves.” Chun-Ting Lee said: “The youth truly excelled in utilising our presentations, with every group contributing towards the correct answers to the quiz. The youth had to once again write down their perspective on Covid-19, and view the difference from their initial statements. It was astounding to see the progress made with such a small group of people, yet knowing what a major difference this has created for our society”. Cape Argus