Cape Town - With the lifting of restrictions and the easing of the  lockdown to level 1, the carnage on the roads have continued with at least 12 people killed and more than two dozen injured, some seriously, in road accidents across the country at the weekend, paramedics said on Sunday. One person died in a car crash on Black River Parkway between the N2 and Berkley Road in Cape Town on Saturday night. Paramedics from ER24 attended to the crash shortly after 9pm. One person suffered fatal injuries and another had moderate injuries. Three people were killed when a minibus taxi crashed into a tree on Farmer’s Road in Carletonville on the West Rand in Gauteng on Saturday afternoon, ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said. Another person was seriously injured, while eight others sustained moderate injuries. Local fire department officials had to use special equipment to free a trapped passenger from the taxi, he said. Two people were killed when a car and a truck collided on the R559 outside Carletonville yesterday afternoon. They were declared dead on the scene. One seriously injured person was airlifted from the scene to hospital while another seriously injured person was rushed to hospital by ambulance. Two people were killed when four vehicles collided on the R54 near Vaal Marina on the shores of the Vaal Dam in Gauteng yesterday. Paramedics arriving on the scene to find six people injured, two of them in a serious condition. Four people died in a head-on collision on the Lothair road about 30km from Ermelo in Mpumalanga shortly after 6pm on Saturday. ER24 paramedics and local emergency services arriving on the scene to find four men with fatal injuries. One person was found with minor injuries and transported the MediClinic Ermelo. On Friday afternoon, a 13-year-old sustained serious injuries when he was knocked down by a bakkie along Power Street in Germiston, Ekurhuleni. Paramedics arriving on the scene found the teen still lying on the road. He was treated for his injuries and transported to Tambo Memorial Hospital. On Saturday, paramedics attended to another pedestrian accident in Wadeville, also in Germiston. A  man sustained moderate injuries when his light delivery vehicle overturned in Glenharvie on the West Rand on Saturday morning. A crash in Begonia Street in Carletonville left two people with moderate injuries, Vermaak said. In KwaZulu-Natal, a 19-year-old man drowned in the Chelmsford Dam in Newcastle. Cape Argus