Cape Town - A year after her mother's passing and less than a month after her father's, a 17-year-old girl participated in the Sanlam Cape Town virtual marathon to raise awareness on breast cancer in memory of her late mother. Zuné Swartz, 17, from Kraaifontein was the only child of Anthony, 48, and Zondelia Swartz, 47. Zondelia, who is fondly referred to as "Zonny", was honoured during Sunday's race after several friends and family had joined to raise awareness, donning pink with pink-coloured hair streaks. Zonny died from breast cancer on September 8 last year. “My mom was diagnosed with breast cancer when I was 10 and then it was always like an on and off process where she would go into remission for about a year or a few months and then be diagnosed again so the breast cancer moved from her breast to her liver, to her spine then to her brain,” said Swartz. Her father died on September 21 this year as a result of a heart attack. “His health also wasn't the best, obviously because he was so attached to my mom. After her passing he kind of deteriorated emotionally and physically.” Zuné described her mother as always beaming with positivity and generous by nature, putting the needs of others above her own. Childhood friend Elwyn Hansby-Consul said soon after Zonny’s diagnosis, Zonny shared how she wanted to assist other women fighting cancer at Tygerberg Hospital Breast Clinic. Thus began the annual "Zonny’s Love Box" project. “She came up with this idea that she wants to do a toiletries drive for Tygerberg Hospital. We have a mutual friend who is a professor at Tygerberg and she told us about how the women arrive at hospital and don't have any clothes or toiletries with them and how great the need is and Zonny just rallied her family and friends and said, ‘come guys, let’s make up these Love Boxes'.” She said Zonny was grateful she could access private medical care and wanted to do a little extra for those who could not afford it. The project continued after her death, with friends and family keeping her dream alive by collecting individually put-together and donated Love Boxes each October. The project has around 13 ambassadors, all of whom participated or were present to offer support on the day. Participants met at Alk van Zyl park, Panorama, and included an entry fee/donation towards the Love Boxes. Funds raised will also go towards giving the clinic a much-needed revamp to turn the dull space into a warm and comforting room for cancer patients. Marathon runner Vera Adams said although she did not meet Zonny she felt that she needed to lend her support, especially after her sister-in-law had been recently diagnosed with stage four cancer. Last year, over 300 Love Boxes were donated. This year's boxes will go towards the clinic and Paarl Hospital. To assist, contact 082 920 9878/072 048 0025 or email confettiangels@yahoo.com Cape Argus