Cape Town - Sixty additional Cape Town law enforcement officers have been deployed to Hanover Park to quell gang violence. In a statement released on Monday, Western Cape MEC for Community Safety Albert Fritz said he welcomed the deployment of the Law Enforcement Advancement Programme (LEAP) and law enforcement officers appointed through the Western Cape safety plan to curb gang violence. He said the officers will be assisting members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) in joint operations. On Friday, Fritz had a meeting with the area’s ward councillor, Antonio van der Rheede, and the Philippi SAPS station commander to discuss the gang violence. Fritz said that during the meeting the station commander outlined the safety plan he had to quell the violence and that law enforcement officers had contributed to a decrease in violence over the past weekend. “In particular, I wish to commend SAPS and the law enforcement officers deployed through the Western Cape safety plan who have contributed significantly towards the stabilisation of Hanover Park over the past weekend. “Violence and gangsterism has no place in our society and we do not tolerate or condone it. I have called on residents to report known criminal elements who disrupt the safety of their community,”  Fritz said. He said he was determined to ensure law enforcement efforts were closely linked with a comprehensive violence prevention component. He said violence prevention was about working together with all role players, including parents, schools, faith-based organisations and local government, to ensure violence was permanently stopped from happening in the first place. “We will particularly work with young people to ensure that they have access to different kinds of opportunities that will show them a path away from violence, apathy and possible gang influence and involvement. “In the coming months we will work together with SAPS, LEAP, and Law Enforcement to implement this integrated violence prevention intervention on a sustained basis,” Fritz said. African News Agency (ANA)