Cape Town – A heavily guarded Zane Killian appeared in the Cape Town’s Magistrate’s court yesterday, charged as a co-conspirator in the attempt on the life of prominent criminal attorney William Booth. Killian also appeared a day earlier, as an alleged co-conspirator in the murder of anti-Gang Unit investigator Charl Kinnear. Killian appeared on charges relating to the illegal tracking of Booth, who survived an apparent assassination attempt after several shots were fired at his home in April. Dozens of armed police officers escorted Killian to Court 13, wearing a black hoodie and a grey and white mask, while at least 14 Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) members guarded the courtroom. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said the accused was implicated in five charges: gang-related charges, conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, unlawful interception of communication and unauthorised access to, interception of or interference with data (without Booth's permission). Ntabazala said the case was postponed and the defence indicated that they would apply for bail. “The State will oppose bail.” He said the accused was also facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder, murder and unlawful interception of communication related to the murder of Bishop Lavis cop Charl Kinnear, and his formal bail application was postponed to November 27. He said the defence also indicated that they would write to the State and request the two bail applications be joined. Killian’s lawyer, Eric Bryer said the November 27 bail application was scheduled to go ahead; however, they would try to consolidate the two matters on the same day. “It’s crazy to have them separately, so we will do our best and see what decision they come up with.” Ntabazalila said the State indicated that it would wait for the application and respond after studying it. The court said Killian would be moved from Bellville police station and transferred to Goodwood Prison, to make it easy to move him between the two courts. Cape Argus