Action needed as City decommissions desalination plants that cost ratepayers R30m by Ebrahim Wydeman There you have it ladies and gentleman. On Voice of the Cape radio station on Tuesday evening, Xanthea Limberg of the COCT admitted the desalination plants are an absolute and disgraceful disaster. She admitted it. Said so on public radio, and I quote: “The desalination plants are to be decommissioned because they have served their temporary purpose.” Can you believe this? R30 million later. Our hard-earned money spent on a temporary structure that cost us, the ratepaying citizens, R30m. Decommisioned - R30m. And we are supposed to grin and bear it. No, no. Let’s fight this. Let’s demand answers. Let this CoCT and DA return our ill-spent R30m back into our pockets. They can’t just waste our money like this and turn around later saying: “Sorry, we made a mistake.” We are not going to let this just go away. So now you know why a decrease in our water tariffs was never considered. The R30m wasted, which was our money in the first place, was recovered, how? From us of course, via the punitive water charges and water levy. Now wasn’t that just brilliant? Help me here, please, my respected fellow citizens. Do we confront CoCT to come clean? Like hell we do. * Ebrahim Wydeman, Surrey Estate. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.  Limberg defends City’s water expenditure and maintains tariffs not ‘punitive’ by Xanthea Limberg The Monwabisi and Strandfontein temporary desalination plants were not a “waste” of money and not a “mistake” as the reader claims. Also at no point during the interview did I say or infer the plants were “a disgrace” or a “disaster”. These temporary plants were commissioned at the height of the drought crisis to provide emergency water supply as we faced the prospect of Day Zero. They contributed 14million litres of water a day to the city’s water supply while they were operating. The plants are being decommissioned as their contracts have concluded. Tariffs are set only to cover costs of providing a reliable water service, including the maintenance of infrastructure, and investing in new water sources to ensure Cape Town’s water supply is more resilient to future climate shocks. As such, the tariffs for the 2020/21 budget took into account that the City will not be purchasing water from the temporary plants. Tariffs are not “punitive” and there is no “water levy”. The water tariff consists of a fixed part and usage part. The City does not budget for a profit/surplus from the sale of water and sanitation, and seeks to keep costs of service delivery as low as possible. The drought illustrated that we need to move away from sole reliance on surface water, such as dams. We are now confident we are capable of successfully pursuing the large-scale desalination project included in the Water Strategy: our roadmap towards greater resilience and water security in the face of shifting climate realities. * Xanthea Limberg, Mayco member for water and waste services. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.