By James Vos Early on in the Covid-19 pandemic, I established the tourism task team which focused on the interventions needed to minimise the devastating effect the national lockdown measures have had on the tourism and related industries. I have made many bespoke submissions to national government during the various stages of lockdown, including submissions to allow the Business Process Outsourcing sector to be declared essential so they could continue working and save jobs; allowing for the unfettered operation of the e-commerce sector as well as the reopening of leisure travel, intra-provincially, inter-provincially and internationally, while adhering to strict health and safety protocols. The rest of our responses and interventions focused on three outcomes-based categories including containment, adjustment, and recovery. We are now in the recovery phase. All interventions are informed by the Tourism Development Framework (TDF), which outlines a need for Responsible Tourism to underpin all that we do to benefit our communities and future generations. My priority is to ensure the efficient implementation of the TDF so that we boost cultural experiences and diversify tourism products. Cape Town has a vast cultural and heritage diversity. This must be celebrated. It also gives us the opportunity to take a new immersive approach to cultural tourism. It is equally as important to get our aviation sector in the air to ensure that we welcome back our visitors and expand air cargo so our proudly Capetonian goods reach the global market and support jobs here in the city. I was very pleased to confirm that the three airlines currently flying to Cape Town, Airlink, FlySafair and Mango, now have a combined 314 domestic flights to Cape Town each week, which is an increase of 74% month-on-month. International flights are also making a comeback. Air France, KLM, Virgin Atlantic and Delta Air Lines will all be flying to Cape Town from December and we will welcome a direct flight from Lisbon in the new year. Our internationally acclaimed airport is a key feature in our travel and tourism offer and the gateway to our city. Branding at our airport is key to communicate with our visitors and ensures that we speak to our target markets through effective marketing. After a recent visit to the Cape Town International Airport to unveil the City’s Destination Marketing branding, I am happy to confirm that we will now receive more space at the airport for branding. Our official destination marketing organisation, Cape Town Tourism (CTT), is hard at work on several domestic campaigns as South Africans look closer to home instead of going overseas for a top travel experience.In my many interactions with many stakeholders in the tourism sector, I have been struck and immensely impressed with the innovation and implementation of health and safety protocols to keep employees and visitors safe. Our tourism sector is providing safe and enjoyable experiences for visitors by committing in action to behave responsibly in times of this pandemic. Together with CTT and other key stakeholders, combined with the initiatives we have in place, we will bounce back, stronger and more sustainable than before. * Alderman Vos is Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities and Asset Management, City of Cape Town. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).