Cape Town - The Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) has dropped all charges against anti-abortion medic Jacques de Vos, 33, after the complainant said she no longer wanted to pursue the matter. HPCSA spokesperson Priscilla Sekhonyana said: “We received an affidavit from the complainant indicating that she no longer wishes to proceed with the complaint that was filed against Dr De Vos.” “She further advised that she does not wish to testify against De Vos nor participate in the hearing. Based on this decision by the complainant, the HPCSA has no alternative but to withdraw the charges.” Charged with unprofessional conduct for allegedly dissuading a pregnant woman from terminating her pregnancy and likening it to the “killing of a human being,” De Vos pleaded not guilty before a HPCSA professional conduct committee in December. De Vos’s legal team has responded to the HPCSA, stating that he had been punished unduly and should be acquitted. De Vos’s advocate, Martus de Wet, said: “The HPCSA has withdrawn all charges against Dr Jacques de Vos after more than two years of delays and postponements. While we view the withdrawal as the closing of their case, our client had already made a plea and as such he is entitled to an acquittal. “It is a victory and we are delighted. But it is not the end of the road when it comes to the case itself. “We presented expert evidence to the panel which has never been contradicted, so they must pronounce on it and tell us that a doctor who acts in that way is not in breach of his ethical duty,” said De Wet De Wet said the defence team, which was led at the hearings by advocate Keith Matthee, had also asked the disciplinary committee to request the HPCSA to investigate those responsible with driving a vendetta against De Vos and to charge them with unprofessional conduct. ACDP MP Marie Sukers, who had been keenly following the matter said: “We should take note of this case and not forget South Africa is a constitutional democracy in which all beliefs are celebrated, not only the popular ones. We believe that Dr De Vos was treated unfairly and discriminated against because of his beliefs. In its pursuit of a long drawn out disciplinary process, the HPCSA failed to uphold the rights of Dr De Vos, and thus unjustly acted against him. “The withdrawal of the charges after a year cannot reverse the impact of the procedural unfairness to the career of the young doctor. This case also signifies the danger we face when disciplinary procedures are used to silence or intimidate health professionals who are open about their beliefs in the sanctity of life,” said De Wet. Cape Argus