If you care about the future of your children and grandchildren, then I beg you to watch Sir David Attenborough’s “A life on our planet” on Netflix. I take my hat off to Sir David for his concern about the survival of our planet, despite him standing with one foot in the grave at age 94. He states that the devastation caused by the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear power station in 1986, which is regarded as the most costly environmental tragedy in the history of mankind, will pale in comparison to the true tragedy of our time that is presently unfolding across the globe, ie the loss of our planet's wild places or biodiversity. Sir David says that we have pursued animals close to extinction many times in our history but now it is clearly visible that it is no longer acceptable. He says that on his 50th birthday the human population was double what it was when he was born. The meteoric speed with which the number of humans have increased has outpaced that of ALL other animals on Earth. We have eliminated our predators, he says, and most of our diseases are under control with nothing to stop us continuing relentlessly to consume the Earth until it will be depleted. Deforestation of Borneo has reduced the orangutan population by two-thirds in the last 60 years! In the absence of the orangutan - responsible for dispersing the seeds - the future generations of many tree species will be at risk in the rainforest since tree diversity is the key to a rainforest. Overfishing of predators has caused the oceans to die. Also witnessed is the skeletons of dead white coral reefs caused by global warming. The inability of the ocean to absorb the excess heat generated by man’s activities has resulted in the average global temperature being 1°C warmer than when Sir David was born 94 years ago. Summer sea ice has been reduced by 40% over the last 40 years. He said that our planet is losing its ice. Some alarming facts are that we have replaced the wild with the tame. Half of all fertile land on Earth is now farmland. Domestic birds - mostly chickens - account for 70% of the mass of birds on our planet. Humans account for a third of the weight of mammals on Earth, with animals that we eat contributing 60%. Shockingly, other animals from mice to whales contribute only 4%. Sir David claims that we as humans have destroyed our world but it is not too late, we can still turn the tide. Finally, I urge you to watch the advice given by Sir David on “rewilding the wild” and play your part to save our planet for your descendants. So, whether you live in Khayelitsha or in Constantia, our collective effort will determine whether Earth, our home for centuries, will survive. * Adiel Ismail, Mountview. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters must have your proper name and a valid email address to be considered for publication.