by Theodore Petrus The death of Andries Tatane in 2011, the Marikana massacre in 2012, and the recent fatal shooting of Natheniël Julies have one thing in common, they involved acts of police brutality. This has emerged as an issue of national concern. Given the widespread concerns about crime and criminality, the historical and contemporary context of policing and law enforcement has a significant impact on not only SAPS’ ability to police crime, but also the public’s perceptions of how they police. In June, Police Minister Bheki Cele reported in Parliament that 49 cases of police brutality have been reported since the start of the Covid-19 lockdown regulations. Cele said that while the police were allowed by law to act with deadly force, they were also bound to act within the law and the Constitution. This is where we find the dilemma of formal policing in South Africa, especially in relation to another issue of national concern, gangsterism and gang violence. Starting with the wider historical and contemporary context of policing, after 1994, the transformation of the SAPS was a matter of priority. For the majority of South Africans, the police were viewed as the brutal enforcers of the apartheid state. It was thus imperative to restore the public’s trust in the police, that the police service had been transformed. In spite of structural and legislative transformations, subsequent acts and incidents involving the police have served to equate the post-1994 “transformed” police service with that of the apartheid state. In addition to the much-publicised incidents (as well as many others), reports of police mismanagement, corruption and criminality within the highest ranks have reinforced negative perceptions of the force. It remains to be seen what impact the SAPS Amendment Bill of 2020 will have on the SAPS. On the other end of the spectrum, gangsterism and gang violence also has a historical and contemporary context. The gang challenge in our communities is not a recent phenomenon, but it is deeply entrenched and cannot simply be rooted out by a heavy-handed law enforcement approach. Gangsterism forms a significant part of the social and cultural contexts of the communities in which it exists, and is a manifestation of the same historical and contemporary structural violence and marginalisation of these communities. When the police and gang-affected communities come into conflict, the dynamics that are exposed can have a range of consequences. In the Western Cape, we have seen the emergence of community-based anti-gang and anti-crime vigilante organisations such as People Against Gangsterism and Drugs (Pagad). In Eldorado Park, we witnessed the fatal shooting of Julies, leading to community outrage and anger against the police. So what can be done about police brutality and gangsterism? There is no simple answer but the following factors may be a step in the right direction: 1. Studies of police culture that address the root causes of police brutality should be prioritised, and the results taken seriously. 2. Police must become aware of the historical and contemporary issues affecting their current public perception. 3. Attention needs to be given to police leadership and management, starting from the ministry down to branch level. 4. A holistic approach to addressing gangsterism should be encouraged, rather than making it solely a law enforcement issue. 5. Politicisation of gangsterism and policing should make way for policies and recommendations based on social-scientific research. Police brutality and gang-related crime are not unique to South Africa. In the US, Australia, UK and France, cases of  brutality and gang-related violence have been well documented. What makes South Africa unique is the specific context. Sustainable solution(s) will have to be based on a fundamental understanding of this context. As long as this is ignored, efforts –   which don’t violate human rights – to curb police brutality or effective policing of gangs will remain unrealised, as will the current levels of distrust between the public and police. * Petrus is an Associate Professor in Anthropology at the UFS, and is also an academic and business coach. He specialises in research on gang culture and gang violence, witchcraft-related crime and the occult, African demonology and spirit possession and coloured identity dynamics. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).