Cape Town - Three people died in two separate shack fires in Philippi and Fisantekraal. The City’s fire and rescue services spokesperson Jermaine Carelse said crews from Gugulethu, Mitchells Plain, Ottery and Lansdowne responded to reports of informal structures alight in Heinz Park, Philippi, late on Tuesday. A woman and her child died in the blaze. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: “Samora Machel police have opened an inquest docket after a shack fire (on Tuesday) at about 10.30pm in Heinz Park, where a 33-year-old woman and her six-year-old child died. The cause of the fire is currently unknown.” “In Dullah Omar Street, Fisantekraal, a single structure was completely destroyed and a 29-year-old man sustained fatal burn wounds. An elderly woman was treated for smoke inhalation and transported to a nearby hospital. The fire was extinguished at 4.40am,” said Carelse. Josephine Faro, whose son Alistair died in the blaze, said she didn’t know what could have caused the fire. “All I remember is getting up to go to the toilet when I heard him crying out for help. I thought skollies (criminals) were attacking him so I called my husband to go and check,” she said. “That’s when we saw the shack burning. The flames had already engulfed the house and we couldn’t get through to help him because it was locked from the inside." Community leader Elaine Hartzenberg said residents were saddened by Faro’s death. “He was a good young man, who was quiet and kind. He did not deserve to die like that. We are deeply disturbed by the incident and I have already started to work on assisting the family as best as I can,” said Hartzenberg. Faro lived with his girlfriend, who was fortunately not home at the time of the fire. He is also survived by an 11-year-old daughter. Fisantekraal councillor Ruan Beneke said: “I have already begun the processes of contacting the different departments that can assist the family, and I will personally facilitate the processes and ensure that they receive counselling.” Cape Argus