by Alex Tabisher A “skirmish” is a minor encounter between small bodies of troops in war that is often far removed from or unconnected to the major hostilities. Within our present-day context, one removes the military overtones to look at another area of the disease. Our country is under lock-down. Yet, during these serious times, we find responsible citizens waging skirmishes that override the national imperatives. I shall deal with a few instances as objectively as possible, and try and point out where these energies can be better served. An aspirant to a government job declared himself as African. The problem was that his legitimate statement of self, ie one born in Africa, was seen as fraudulent. It did not square with the reprehensible Herrenvolk demeaning racial categories that still haunt us. Nor did it conform to the need to satisfy the latter-day legislation that requires the retention of those categories for purposes of employment equity and national statistics. Skirmish number one. Sinner or saint? The second involves the ubiquitous Julius Malema, leader of the third-largest political party in South Africa. He travels to remote arenas in the country to defend two alleged murderers. He is fully aware that the public spotlight follows him, even if he behaves as a ranting and bullying thug who shouts down all attempts at rational engagement. If he recognises his power, he could surely have been advised that a campaign for greater power is not fought as a gallery visitor in a court of law. He is an MP. He has no mandate to try and influence the course of justice. His claim about land has a lot of truth in it, but he makes it confrontational, unsavoury and downright unpalatable. Saint or sinner? The third skirmish germane to my column is the principal who was torn between his contractual responsibilities and his undoubted moral dilemma in respect of the well-being of his learners and staff. Admittedly, the jury is out, and will stay out for a long time about the efficacy of going to school or not going to school. This individual apparently disobeyed a national education department injunction to inform his cohorts of the return date to school. This is clearly dereliction of duty. To then paint yourself as a victim of those who continue to pay your salary is a thorny issue. Again, saint or sinner? Any person like a corporate executive, a radio show host, a columnist, a preacher in a faith-based arena, or some such, must bear in mind their responsibility. They must put aside self-interest. They must state all sides of the issue openly and fairly, and leave the voters and the plebs such as I to form our judgements and responses in order to better heal our ailing country. * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. He can be contacted on email by actabisher@gmail.com ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Do you have something on your mind; or want to comment on the big stories of the day? We would love to hear from you. Please send your letters to arglet@inl.co.za. All letters to be considered for publication, must contain full names, addresses and contact details (not for publication).